### §9901. Findings

Congress makes the following findings:

(1) According to the 2017 National Security Strategy of the United States of America, "Retaining our position as the world's preeminent economic actor strengthens our ability to use the tools of economic diplomacy for the good of Americans and others.".

(2) A November 7, 2018, cable from Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo to all diplomatic and consular posts—"Boosting Commercial Diplomacy Around the World"—stated that "helping American companies is a foreign policy priority. . .Promoting broad-based, responsible, and sustainable economic growth helps to stabilize regions and creates new and growing markets for U.S. companies. A transparent and level playing field for U.S. investment in these countries counters real and growing challenges such as China's Belt and Road initiative.".

(3) In the January–February 2019 issue of The Foreign Service Journal, Ambassador Barbara Stephenson, the President of the American Foreign Service Association, wrote, "Foreign Service support for American business. . .is a major reason why the U.S. Foreign Service was created.".

(Pub. L. 116–94, div. J, title VII, §702, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 3069.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 116–94, div. J, title VII, §701, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 3069, provided that: "This title \[enacting this chapter and amending sections 2651a, 3927, and 4028 of this title\] may be cited as the 'Championing American Business Through Diplomacy Act of 2019'."