### §3508. Department of defense contracts: notice to congressional committees before taking certain actions

(a) Notice Before Award of Certain Contracts.—

(1) Required notice.—The head of an agency may not initiate a contract described in paragraph (2) unless the congressional defense committees are notified of the proposed contract at least 30 days in advance of the award of the proposed contract.

(2) Covered contracts.—Paragraph (1) applies to the following contracts:

(A) A multiyear contract—

(i) that employs economic order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year of the contract; or

(ii) that includes an unfunded contingent liability in excess of $20,000,000.

  

(B) Any contract for advance procurement leading to a multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year.

  

(b) Notice Before Terminating Multiyear Procurement Contract.—The head of an agency may not terminate a multiyear procurement contract until 10 days after the date on which notice of the proposed termination is provided to the congressional defense committees.

(c) Inapplicability to Noaa and Coast Guard.—This section and sections 3509 and 3510 of this title do not apply to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration or to the Coast Guard.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1822(a), (j)(1)(C), (2)–(4), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4197, 4201, 4202.)

#### Codification

The text of pars. (1), (6), and (8) of subsec. (l) of section 2306b of this title, which were transferred to this section and amended by Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(j)(1)(C), (2)–(4), was based on Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title VIII, §806(b)(1), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1834; Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VIII, §809(1), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 705; Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title VIII, §806(2)\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–207.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(j)(1)(C)(i), after transfers of certain pars. of section 2306b(l) of this title to sections 3509 and 3510 of this title, transferred remainder of section 2306b(l) to this section and struck out subsec. (l) designation and heading "Various Additional Requirements With Respect to Multiyear Defense Contracts" at beginning.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(j)(1)(C)(ii), (2)(A), (C), (D), after transfer of section 2306b(l) of this title to this section, redesignated par. (1) and its subpars. (A) and (B) as subsec. (a) and pars. (1) and (2), respectively, inserted subsec. and par. headings and realigned margins, and further redesignated cls. (i) and (ii) of former subpar. (B) and subcls. (I) and (II) of cl. (i) as subpars. (A) and (B) of par. (2) and cls. (i) and (ii) of subpar. (A), respectively.

Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(j)(2)(B), substituted "paragraph (2)" for "subparagraph (B)".

Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(j)(2)(D)(i), which directed substitution of "Paragraph (1)" for "subparagraph (A)" following par. (2) heading, was executed by making the substitution for "Subparagraph (A)", to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(j)(1)(C)(ii), (3), after transfer of section 2306b(l) of this title to this section, redesignated par. (6) as subsec. (b) and inserted heading.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(j)(1)(C)(ii), (4), after transfer of section 2306b(l) of this title to this section, redesignated par. (8) as subsec. (c), inserted heading, and substituted "This section and sections 3509 and 3510 of this title do not" for "This subsection does not".

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.