### §3506. Department of defense contracts: acquisition of weapon systems

In the case of the Department of Defense, the authority under section 3501(a) of this title includes authority to enter into the following multiyear contracts in accordance with this subchapter:

(1) A multiyear contract for the purchase of a weapon system, items and services associated with a weapon system, and logistics support for a weapon system.

(2) A multiyear contract for advance procurement of components, parts, and materials necessary to the manufacture of a weapon system, including a multiyear contract for such advance procurement that is entered into in order to achieve economic-lot purchases and more efficient production rates.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1822(a), (h), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4197, 4199.)

#### Codification

The text of subsec. (h) of section 2306b of this title, which was transferred to this section and amended by Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(h), was based on Pub. L. 103–355, title I, §1022(a)(1), Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3257.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(h), transferred subsec. (h) of section 2306b of this title to this section, struck out subsec. (h) designation and heading "Defense Acquisitions of Weapon Systems" at beginning, and substituted "section 3501(a) of this title" for "subsection (a)" and "this subchapter" for "this section" in introductory provisions.

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.