### §7301. Determination of vessel delivery dates

(a) In General.—The delivery of a covered vessel shall be deemed to occur on the date on which—

(1) the Secretary of the Navy determines that the vessel is assembled and complete; and

(2) custody of the vessel and all systems contained in the vessel transfers to the Navy.

  

(b) Inclusion in Budget and Acquisition Reports.—The delivery dates of covered vessels shall be included—

(1) in the materials submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Defense in support of the budget of the President for each fiscal year (as submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code); and

(2) in any relevant Selected Acquisition Report submitted to Congress under section 2432 of this title.

  

(c) Covered Vessel Defined.—In this section, the term "covered vessel" means any vessel of the Navy that is under construction on or after the date of the enactment of this section using amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for shipbuilding and conversion, Navy.

(Added Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title I, §121(a)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2029.)

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (c), is the date of the enactment of Pub. L. 114–328, which was approved Dec. 23, 2016.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7301, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 450, related to estimates required for bids on construction of naval vessels, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, §824(a)(7), Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1707.

#### Certification

Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title I, §121(b), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2030, provided that:

"(1) In general.—Not later than January 1, 2017, the Secretary of the Navy shall certify to the congressional defense committees \[Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives\] that the delivery dates of the following vessels have been adjusted in accordance with section 7301 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a):

"(A) The U.S.S. John F. Kennedy (CVN–79).

"(B) The U.S.S. Zumwalt (DDG–1000).

"(C) The U.S.S. Michael Monsoor (DDG–1001).

"(D) The U.S.S. Lyndon B. Johnson (DDG–1002).

"(E) Any other vessel of the Navy that is under construction on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 23, 2016\].

"(2) Contents.—The certification under paragraph (1) shall include—

"(A) an identification of each vessel for which the delivery date was adjusted; and

"(B) the delivery date of each such vessel, as so adjusted."