### §1437a. Training and education programs of employing offices

#### (a) Requiring offices to develop and implement programs

Each employing office shall develop and implement a program to train and educate covered employees of the office in the rights and protections provided under this chapter, including the procedures available under subchapter IV to consider alleged violations of this chapter.

#### (b) Report to committees

#### (1) In general

Not later than 45 days after the beginning of each Congress (beginning with the One Hundred Seventeenth Congress), each employing office shall submit a report to the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate on the implementation of the program required under subsection (a).

#### (2) Special rule for first report

Not later than 180 days after December 21, 2018, each employing office shall submit the report described in paragraph (1) to the Committees described in such paragraph.

#### (c) Exception for offices of Congress

This section does not apply to an employing office of the House of Representatives or an employing office of the Senate.

(Pub. L. 104–1, title V, §509, as added Pub. L. 115–397, title III, §306(a)(2), Dec. 21, 2018, 132 Stat. 5324.)

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 104–1, Jan. 23, 1995, 109 Stat. 3, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1301 of this title and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 509 of Pub. L. 104–1 was renumbered section 511 and is classified to section 1438 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon expiration of the 180-day period beginning on Dec. 21, 2018, with provisions for effect on pending proceedings, see section 401 of Pub. L. 115–397, set out as a note under section 1301 of this title.