### §1437b. Support for out-of-area covered employees

#### (a) In general

All covered employees whose location of employment is outside of the Washington, DC area (referred to in this section as "out-of-area covered employees") shall have equitable access to the resources and services provided by the Office and under this chapter as is provided to covered employees who work in the Washington, DC area.

#### (b) Office of Congressional Workplace Rights

The Office shall—

(1) establish a method by which out-of-area covered employees may communicate securely with the Office, which shall include an option for real-time audiovisual communication; and

(2) provide guidance to employing offices regarding how each office can facilitate equitable access to the resources and services provided under this chapter for its out-of-area covered employees, including information regarding the communication methods described in paragraph (1).

#### (c) Employing offices

It is the sense of Congress that each employing office with out-of-area covered employees should use its best efforts to facilitate equitable access to the resources and services provided under this chapter for those employees.

(Pub. L. 104–1, title V, §510, as added Pub. L. 115–397, title III, §307(a)(2), Dec. 21, 2018, 132 Stat. 5325.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 104–1, Jan. 23, 1995, 109 Stat. 3, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1301 of this title and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 510 of Pub. L. 104–1 was renumbered section 511 and is classified to section 1438 of this title.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon expiration of the 180-day period beginning on Dec. 21, 2018, with provisions for effect on pending proceedings, see section 401 of Pub. L. 115–397, set out as an Effective Date of 2018 Amendment note under section 1301 of this title.