### §3794. Release of technical data under Freedom of Information Act: recovery of costs

(a) In General.—(1) The Secretary of Defense shall, if required to release technical data under section 552 of title 5 (relating to the Freedom of Information Act), release such technical data to the person requesting the release if the person pays all reasonable costs attributable to search, duplication, and review.

(2) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations, pursuant to notice and receipt of public comment, specifying a uniform schedule of fees under this section.

(b) Crediting of Receipts.—An amount received under this section—

(1) shall be retained by the Department of Defense or the element of the Department of Defense receiving the amount; and

(2) shall be merged with and available for the same purpose and the same time period as the appropriation from which the costs incurred in complying with requests for technical data were paid.

  

(c) Waiver.—The Secretary of Defense shall waive the payment of costs required by subsection (a) which are in an amount greater than the costs that would be required for such a release of information under section 552 of title 5 if—

(1) the request is made by a citizen of the United States or a United States corporation, and such citizen or corporation certifies that the technical data requested is required to enable such citizen or corporation to submit an offer or determine whether it is capable of submitting an offer to provide the product to which the technical data relates to the United States or a contractor with the United States (except that the Secretary may require the citizen or corporation to pay a deposit in an amount equal to not more than the cost of complying with the request, to be refunded upon submission of an offer by the citizen or corporation);

(2) the release of technical data is requested in order to comply with the terms of an international agreement; or

(3) the Secretary determines, in accordance with section 552(a)(4)(A)(iii) of title 5, that such a waiver is in the interests of the United States.

(Added Pub. L. 99–500, §101(c) \[title X, §954(a)(1)\], Oct. 18, 1986, 100 Stat. 1783–82, 1783–172, and Pub. L. 99–591, §101(c) \[title X, §954(a)(1)\], Oct. 30, 1986, 100 Stat. 3341–82, 3341–172, §2328; Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title IX, formerly title IV, §954(a)(1), Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3952, renumbered title IX, Pub. L. 100–26, §3(5), Apr. 21, 1987, 101 Stat. 273; amended Pub. L. 100–26, §7(a)(7)(A), (B)(i), Apr. 21, 1987, 101 Stat. 278; renumbered §3794, Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1833(o)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4234.)

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 3794 to 3797 were repealed by Pub. L. 96–513, title II, §213, title VII, §701, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2885, 2955, effective Sept. 15, 1981.

Section 3794, added Pub. L. 86–616, §3(a), July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 389, authorized Secretary of the Army to remove an officer from active list of Regular Army if his removal is recommended by a board of review and provided that decision of Secretary in such a case is final and conclusive. See section 1184 of this title.

Section 3795, added Pub. L. 86–616, §3(a), July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 389, provided that each officer under consideration for removal from active list of Regular Army under this chapter be given written notification, at least 30 days prior to a board of inquiry hearing, that he is being required to show cause for retention on active list, be allowed reasonable time to prepare a defense, be allowed to appear in person and by counsel at proceedings before board of inquiry, and be allowed full access to, and furnished copies of, records relevant to his case at all stages of proceedings, except records that Secretary determines be withheld in interests of national security, in which case, a summary, to extent national security permits, be furnished. See section 1185 of this title.

Section 3796, added Pub. L. 86–616, §3(a), July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 389, authorized Secretary of the Army, at any time during proceedings under this chapter and before removal of an officer from active list of Regular Army, to grant that officer's request for voluntary retirement, if he is otherwise qualified therefor, or for honorable discharge with severance benefits. See section 1186 of this title.

Section 3797, added Pub. L. 86–616, §3(a), July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 390, provided that no officer serve on a board under this chapter unless he holds a regular or temporary grade above lieutenant colonel, and is senior in regular grade to, and outranks, any officer considered by that board and that no person be a member of more than one board convened under this chapter for same officer. See section 1187 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1833(o)(2), renumbered section 2328 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.