### §8128. Small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans: contracting priority

(a) Contracting Priority.—In procuring goods and services pursuant to a contracting preference under this title or any other provision of law, the Secretary shall give priority to a small business concern owned and controlled by veterans, if such business concern also meets the requirements of that contracting preference.

(b) Definition.—For purposes of this section, the term "small business concern owned and controlled by veterans" means a small business concern that is included in the small business database maintained by the Secretary under section 8127(f) of this title.

(Added Pub. L. 109–461, title V, §503(a)(1), Dec. 22, 2006, 120 Stat. 3435; amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, §862(b)(3)(B), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3779.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, §862(b)(3), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3778, provided that, effective on the transfer date of subsection (f) of section 8127 of this title, which is 2 years after Jan. 1, 2021, this section is amended by striking "maintained by the Secretary under section 8127(f) of this title" and inserting "maintained by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration under section 36 of the Small Business Act".

See 2021 Amendment note and Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–283 substituted "maintained by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration under section 36 of the Small Business Act" for "maintained by the Secretary under section 8127(f) of this title".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, §862(b)(3), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3778, provided that the amendment made by section 862(b)(3)(B) shall take effect on the transfer date, which is 2 years after Jan. 1, 2021, see section 862(a) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note under section 657f of Title 15, Commerce and Trade.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 109–461, title V, §503(b), Dec. 22, 2006, 120 Stat. 3436, provided that: "This section \[enacting this section\] and the amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 22, 2006\]."