### §14043d–3. Development of curricula and pilot programs for home visitation projects

#### (a) Grants authorized

#### (1) In general

The Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women, and in collaboration with the Department of Health and Human Services, shall award grants on a competitive basis to home visitation programs, in collaboration with victim service providers, for the purposes of developing and implementing model policies and procedures to train home visitation service providers on addressing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in families experiencing violence, or at risk of violence, to reduce the impact of that violence on children, maintain safety, improve parenting skills, and break intergenerational cycles of violence.

#### (2) Term

The Director shall make the grants under this section for a period of 2 fiscal years.

#### (3) Award basis

The Director shall—

(A) consider the needs of underserved populations;

(B) award not less than 7 percent of such amounts for the funding of tribal projects from the amounts made available under this section for a fiscal year; and

(C) award up to 8 percent for the funding of technical assistance programs from the amounts made available under this section for a fiscal year.

#### (b) Authorization of appropriations

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011.

#### (c) Eligible entities

To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall be a national, Federal, State, local, territorial, or tribal—

(1) home visitation program that provides services to pregnant women and to young children and their parent or primary caregiver that are provided in the permanent or temporary residence or in other familiar surroundings of the individual or family receiving such services; or

(2) victim services organization or agency in collaboration with an organization or organizations listed in paragraph (1).

#### (d) Grantee requirements

Under this section, an entity shall—

(1) prepare and submit to the Director an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require; and

(2) describe in the application the policies and procedures that the entity has or will adopt to—

(A) enhance or ensure the safety and security of children and their nonabusing parent in homes already experiencing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking;

(B) ensure linguistically, culturally, and community relevant services for underserved communities;

(C) ensure the adequate training by domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault or stalking victim service providers of home visitation grantee program staff to—

(i) safely screen for and/or recognize domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(ii) understand the impact of domestic violence or sexual assault on children and protective actions taken by a nonabusing parent or caretaker in response to violence against anyone in the household; and

(iii) link new parents with existing community resources in communities where resources exist; and

  

(D) ensure that relevant State and local domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking victim service providers and coalitions are aware of the efforts of organizations receiving grants under this section, and are included as training partners, where possible.

(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, §41304, as added Pub. L. 109–162, title IV, §401, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 3020.)

#### Repeal of Section

For effective date of repeal by Pub. L. 113–4, see Effective Date of Repeal note below.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as an Effective Date of 2013 Amendment note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.