### §14043d–4. Engaging men and youth in preventing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking

#### (a) Grants authorized

#### (1) In general

The Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women, and in collaboration with the Department of Health and Human Services, shall award grants on a competitive basis to eligible entities for the purpose of developing or enhancing programs related to engaging men and youth in preventing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by helping them to develop mutually respectful, nonviolent relationships.

#### (2) Term

The Director shall make grants under this section for a period of 2 fiscal years.

#### (3) Award basis

The Director shall award grants—

(A) considering the needs of underserved populations;

(B) awarding not less than 10 percent of such amounts for the funding of Indian tribes from the amounts made available under this section for a fiscal year; and

(C) awarding up to 8 percent for the funding of technical assistance for grantees and non-grantees working in this area from the amounts made available under this section for a fiscal year.

#### (b) Authorization of appropriations

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011.

#### (c) Use of funds

#### (1) Programs

The funds appropriated under this section shall be used by eligible entities—

(A) to develop or enhance community-based programs, including gender-specific programs in accordance with applicable laws that—

(i) encourage children and youth to pursue nonviolent relationships and reduce their risk of becoming victims or perpetrators of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking; and

(ii) that [1](#14043d-4_1_target) include at a minimum—

(I) information on domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or child sexual abuse and how they affect children and youth; and

(II) strategies to help participants be as safe as possible; or

  

(B) to create public education campaigns and community organizing to encourage men and boys to work as allies with women and girls to prevent violence against women and girls conducted by entities that have experience in conducting public education campaigns that address domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

#### (2) Media limits

No more than 40 percent of funds received by a grantee under this section may be used to create and distribute media materials.

#### (d) Eligible entities

#### (1) Relationships

Eligible entities under subsection (c)(1)(A) of this section are—

(A) nonprofit, nongovernmental domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking victim service providers or coalitions;

(B) community-based child or youth services organizations with demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the needs and concerns of young people;

(C) a State, territorial, tribal, or unit of local governmental entity that is partnered with an organization described in subparagraph (A) or (B); or

(D) a program that provides culturally specific services.

#### (2) Awareness campaign

Eligible entities under subsection (c)(1)(B) of this section are—

(A) nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations or coalitions that have a documented history of creating and administering effective public education campaigns addressing the prevention of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault or stalking; or

(B) a State, territorial, tribal, or unit of local governmental entity that is partnered with an organization described in subparagraph (A).

#### (e) Grantee requirements

Under this section, an entity shall—

(1) prepare and submit to the Director an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require; and

(2) eligible entities pursuant to subsection (c)(1)(A) of this section shall describe in the application the policies and procedures that the entity has or will adopt to—

(A) enhance or ensure the safety and security of children and youth already experiencing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking in their lives;

(B) ensure linguistically, culturally, and community relevant services for underserved communities;

(C) inform participants about laws, services, and resources in the community, and make referrals as appropriate; and

(D) ensure that State and local domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking victim service providers and coalitions are aware of the efforts of organizations receiving grants under this section.

(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, §41305, as added Pub. L. 109–162, title IV, §401, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 3021.)

#### Repeal of Section

For effective date of repeal by Pub. L. 113–4, see Effective Date of Repeal note below.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as an Effective Date of 2013 Amendment note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

[1 So in original. The word “that” probably should not appear.](#14043d-4_1)