### §6367. Information dissemination

#### (a) In general

From funds reserved under section 6362(b)(1)(D) of this title, the National Institute for Literacy, in collaboration with the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Director of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development shall—

(1) disseminate information on scientifically based reading research pertaining to children, youth, and adults;

(2) identify and disseminate information about schools, local educational agencies, and State educational agencies that have effectively developed and implemented classroom reading programs that meet the requirements of this subpart, including those State educational agencies, local educational agencies, and schools that have been identified as effective through the evaluation and peer review provisions of this subpart; and

(3) support the continued identification and dissemination of information on reading programs that contain the essential components of reading instruction as supported by scientifically based reading research, that can lead to improved reading outcomes for children, youth, and adults.

#### (b) Dissemination and coordination

At a minimum, the National Institute for Literacy shall disseminate the information described in subsection (a) of this section to—

(1) recipients of Federal financial assistance under this subchapter, subchapter III of this chapter, the Head Start Act \[42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.\], the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act \[20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.\], and the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act \[29 U.S.C. 3271 et seq.\]; and

(2) each Bureau funded school (as defined in section 2021 of title 25).

#### (c) Use of existing networks

In carrying out this section, the National Institute for Literacy shall, to the extent practicable, use existing information and dissemination networks developed and maintained through other public and private entities including through the Department and the National Center for Family Literacy.

#### (d) National Institute for Literacy

For purposes of funds reserved under section 6362(b)(1)(D) of this title to carry out this section, the National Institute for Literacy shall administer such funds in accordance with section 9252(b) [1](#6367_1_target) of this title (relating to the establishment and administration of the National Institute for Literacy).

(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, §1207, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, §101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1549; amended Pub. L. 110–154, §1(c)(3), Dec. 21, 2007, 121 Stat. 1828.)

#### References in Text

The Head Start Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is subchapter B (§§635–657) of chapter 8 of subtitle A of title VI of Pub. L. 97–35, Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 499, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§9831 et seq.) of chapter 105 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9801 of Title 42 and Tables.

The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is title VI of Pub. L. 91–230, Apr. 13, 1970, 84 Stat. 175, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of this title and Tables.

The Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is title II of Pub. L. 113–128, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1608, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§3271 et seq.) of chapter 32 of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3101 of Title 29 and Tables.

Section 9252 of this title, referred to in subsec. (d), was repealed by Pub. L. 113–128, title V, §§506, 511(a), July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1703, 1705, effective July 1, 2015.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6367, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, §1207, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, §101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3582; amended Pub. L. 106–554, §1(a)(4) \[div. B, title XVI, §1604(k)\], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–332, related to applications for Even Start subgrants, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110. See section 6381f of this title.

#### Amendments

**2007**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110–154 substituted "Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development" for "National Institute for Child Health and Human Development" in introductory provisions.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#6367_1)