### §4372. Unit cost reports: quarterly report from program manager to service acquisition executive

(a) Required Reports.—

(1) Requirement.—The program manager for a major defense acquisition program (other than a program not required to be included in the Selected Acquisition Report for that quarter under section 4352(c) of this title) shall, on a quarterly basis, submit to the service acquisition executive designated by the Secretary concerned a written report on the unit costs of the program (or of each designated major subprogram under the program).

(2) Time for submittal.—Each report shall be submitted not more than 30 calendar days after the end of that quarter.

  

(b) Matter to Be Included in Unit Cost Reports.—The program manager shall include in each such unit cost report the following information with respect to the program (as of the last day of the quarter for which the report is made):

(1) The program acquisition unit cost for the program (or for each designated major subprogram under the program).

(2) In the case of a procurement program, the procurement unit cost for the program (or for each designated major subprogram under the program).

(3) Any cost variance or schedule variance in a major contract under the program since the contract was entered into.

(4) Any changes from program schedule milestones or program performances reflected in the baseline description established under section 4214 of this title that are known, expected, or anticipated by the program manager.

(5) Any significant changes in the total program cost for development and procurement of the software component of the program or subprogram, schedule milestones for the software component of the program or subprogram, or expected performance for the software component of the program or subprogram that are known, expected, or anticipated by the program manager.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1850(a), (e), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4265, 4266.)

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.