### §1691b. Promulgation of regulations by the Bureau

#### (a) In general

The Bureau shall prescribe regulations to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. These regulations may contain but are not limited to such classifications, differentiation, or other provision, and may provide for such adjustments and exceptions for any class of transactions, as in the judgment of the Bureau are necessary or proper to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter, to prevent circumvention or evasion thereof, or to facilitate or substantiate compliance therewith.

#### (b) Exempt transactions

Such regulations may exempt from the provisions of this subchapter any class of transactions that are not primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, or business or commercial loans made available by a financial institution, except that a particular type within a class of such transactions may be exempted if the Bureau determines, after making an express finding that the application of this subchapter or of any provision of this subchapter of such transaction would not contribute substantially to effecting the purposes of this subchapter.

#### (c) Limitation on exemptions

An exemption granted pursuant to subsection (b) shall be for no longer than five years and shall be extended only if the Bureau makes a subsequent determination, in the manner described by such paragraph,[1](#1691b_1_target) that such exemption remains appropriate.

#### (d) Maintenance of records

Pursuant to Bureau regulations, entities making business or commercial loans shall maintain such records or other data relating to such loans as may be necessary to evidence compliance with this subsection [2](#1691b_2_target) or enforce any action pursuant to the authority of this chapter. In no event shall such records or data be maintained for a period of less than one year. The Bureau shall promulgate regulations to implement this paragraph [3](#1691b_3_target) in the manner prescribed by chapter 5 of title 5.

#### (e) Notice of denial of loan

The Bureau shall provide in regulations that an applicant for a business or commercial loan shall be provided a written notice of such applicant's right to receive a written statement of the reasons for the denial of such loan.

#### (f) Board authority

Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Board shall prescribe regulations to carry out the purposes of this subchapter with respect to a person described in section 5519(a) of title 12. These regulations may contain but are not limited to such classifications, differentiation, or other provision, and may provide for such adjustments and exceptions for any class of transactions, as in the judgment of the Board are necessary or proper to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter, to prevent circumvention or evasion thereof, or to facilitate or substantiate compliance therewith.

#### (g) Deference

Notwithstanding any power granted to any Federal agency under this subchapter, the deference that a court affords to a Federal agency with respect to a determination made by such agency relating to the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this subchapter that is subject to the jurisdiction of such agency shall be applied as if that agency were the only agency authorized to apply, enforce, interpret, or administer the provisions of this subchapter [4](#1691b_4_target)

(Pub. L. 90–321, title VII, §703, as added Pub. L. 93–495, title V, §503, Oct. 28, 1974, 88 Stat. 1522; amended Pub. L. 94–239, §3(a), Mar. 23, 1976, 90 Stat. 252; Pub. L. 100–533, title III, §301, Oct. 25, 1988, 102 Stat. 2692; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1085(1), (3), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2083.)

#### Amendments

**2010**—Pub. L. 111–203, §1085(3)(A), substituted “Promulgation of regulations by the Bureau” for “Regulations” in section catchline.

Pub. L. 111–203, §1085(1), substituted “Bureau” for “Board” wherever appearing.

Subsecs. (a) to (e). Pub. L. 111–203, §1085(3)(B)–(E), in subsec. (a), struck out “(a)” designation before “(1)”, redesignated subsec. (a) pars. (1) to (5) as subsecs. (a) to (e), respectively, in subsec. (c) substituted “subsection (b)” for “paragraph (2)”, and struck out former subsec. (b), which related to establishment of a Consumer Advisory Council to advise and consult with the Board.

Subsecs. (f), (g). Pub. L. 111–203, §1085(3)(F), added subsecs. (f) and (g).

**1988**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 100–533 amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: “The Board shall prescribe regulations to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. These regulations may contain but are not limited to such classifications, differentiation, or other provision, and may provide for such adjustments and exceptions for any class of transactions, as in the judgment of the Board are necessary or proper to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter, to prevent circumvention or evasion thereof, or to facilitate or substantiate compliance therewith. In particular, such regulations may exempt from one or more of the provisions of this subchapter any class of transactions not primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, if the Board makes an express finding that the application of such provision or provisions would not contribute substantially to carrying out the purposes of this subchapter. Such regulations shall be prescribed as soon as possible after the date of enactment of this Act, but in no event later than the effective date of this Act.”

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–239 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted provisions exempting from regulations of this subchapter any class of transactions not primarily for personal, family, or household purposes to be determined by the Board, and added subsec. (b).

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 94–239 effective Mar. 23, 1976, see section 708 of Pub. L. 90–321, set out as an Effective Date note under section 1691 of this title.

[1 So in original. Probably should be “subsection,”.](#1691b_1)

[2 So in original.](#1691b_2)

[3 So in original. Probably should be “subsection”.](#1691b_3)

[4 So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.](#1691b_4)