### §40728. Transfer of firearms, ammunition, and parts

(a) Required Transfers.—In accordance with subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Army shall transfer to the corporation all firearms and ammunition that, on February 9, 1996, were under the control of the director of civilian marksmanship (as that position existed under section 4307 of title 10 on February 9, 1996), including—

(1) all firearms on loan to affiliated clubs and State associations;

(2) all firearms in the possession of the Civilian Marksmanship Support Detachment; and

(3) all M–1 Garand and caliber .22 rimfire rifles stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, Anniston, Alabama.

  

(b) Time for Transfers.—The Secretary shall transfer firearms and ammunition under subsection (a) of this section as and when necessary to enable the corporation—

(1) to issue or loan firearms or ammunition under section 40731 of this title; or

(2) to sell firearms or ammunition under section 40732 of this title.

  

(c) Vesting of Title in Transferred Items.—Title to an item transferred to the corporation under this section shall vest in the corporation—

(1) on the issuance of the item to an eligible recipient under section 40731 of this title; or

(2) immediately before the corporation delivers the item to a purchaser in accordance with a contract for sale of the item that is authorized under section 40732 of this title.

  

(d) Storage of Firearms.—Firearms stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, Anniston, Alabama, before February 10, 1996, and used for the Civilian Marksmanship Program (as that program existed under section 4308(e) of title 10 before February 10, 1996), shall remain at that facility or another storage facility designated by the Secretary, without cost to the corporation, until the firearms are issued, loaned, or sold by the corporation, or otherwise transferred to the corporation.

(e) Discretionary Transfer of Parts.—The Secretary may transfer from the inventory of the Department of the Army to the corporation any part from a rifle designated to be demilitarized.

(f) Limitation on Demilitarization of M–1 Rifles.—After February 10, 1996, the Secretary may not demilitarize an M–1 Garand rifle in the inventory of the Army unless the Defense Logistics Agency decides the rifle is unserviceable.

(g) Cost of Transfers.—A transfer of firearms, ammunition, or parts to the corporation under this section shall be made without cost to the corporation, except that the corporation shall assume the cost of preparation and transportation of firearms and ammunition transferred under this section.

(h) Authorized Transfers.—(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may transfer to the corporation, in accordance with the procedure prescribed in this subchapter, surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols and spare parts and related accessories for those pistols that, on the date of the enactment of this subsection, are under the control of the Secretary and are surplus to the requirements of the Department of the Army, and such material as may be recovered by the Secretary pursuant to section 40728A(a) of this title. The Secretary shall determine a reasonable schedule for the transfer of such surplus pistols.

(2) The Secretary may not transfer more than 10,000 surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols to the corporation during any year and may only transfer such pistols as long as pistols described in paragraph (1) remain available for transfer.

(Pub. L. 105–225, Aug. 12, 1998, 112 Stat. 1339; Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title X, §1087(a)(1), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 1012.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------------ | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 40728(a)           | 36:5505(a).          | Feb. 10, 1996, Pub. L. 104–106, title XVI, §§1615, 1616(b), (c), 110 Stat. 518, 519; Sept. 23, 1996, Pub. L. 104–201, title X, §1073(c)(1), (2), 110 Stat. 2657. |
| 40728(b)           | 36:5505(b).          |                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 40728(c)           | 36:5505(d).          |                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 40728(d)           | 36:5506(b).          |                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 40728(e)           | 36:5505(c).          |                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 40728(f)           | 36:5506(c).          |                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 40728(g)           | 36:5505(e).          |                                                                                                                                                                  |

In subsection (a), the words "director of civilian marksmanship (as that position existed under section 4307 of title 10 on February 9, 1996)" are substituted for "Director of the Civilian Marksmanship Program" to avoid confusion with the office of the Director of Civilian Marksmanship created on February 10, 1996, by section 1611(d) of The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996 (Public Law 104–106, 110 Stat. 516).

In subsection (b), the words "firearms or ammunition" are substituted for "such items" for clarity. In clause (2), the words "to purchasers" are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (c)(1), the words "eligible recipient" are substituted for "recipient eligible . . . to receive the item" to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (c)(2), the word "purchaser" is substituted for "purchaser of the item" to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (d), the words "(as that program existed under section 4308(e) of title 10 before February 10, 1996)" are added for clarity. The words "issued, loaned, or sold by the corporation" are substituted for "issued, loaned, or sold by" for clarity.

In subsection (e), the words "transfer . . . to" are substituted for "make available to" for consistency in the revised section and in consideration of the words "transfer of . . . parts to" in 36:5505(e).

#### References in Text

Sections 4307 and 4308 of title 10, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d), were repealed by Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XVI, §1624(a)(1), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 522.

The date of the enactment of this subsection, referred to in subsec. (h)(1), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 114–92, which was approved Nov. 25, 2015.

#### Amendments

**2015**—Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 114–92 added subsec. (h).

#### Transfers of Surplus Firearms to Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety: Pilot Program and Limitation

Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title X, §1087(b), (c), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 1013, 1014, provided that:

"(b) Pilot Program.—

"(1) One-year authority.—The Secretary of the Army may carry out a one-year pilot program under which the Secretary may transfer to the Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety not more than 10,000 firearms described in paragraph (2).

"(2) Firearms described.—The firearms described in this paragraph are surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols and spare parts and related accessories for those pistols that, on the date of the enactment of this section \[Nov. 25, 2015\], are under the control of the Secretary and are surplus to the requirements of the Department of the Army.

"(3) Transfer requirements.—Transfers of surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols from the Army to the Corporation under the pilot program shall be made in accordance with subchapter II of chapter 407 of title 36, United States Code.

"(4) Reports to congress.—

"(A) Interim report.—Not later than 90 days after the Secretary initiates the pilot program under this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to Congress an interim report on the pilot program.

"(B) Final report.—Not later than 15 days after the Secretary completes the pilot program under this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a final report on the pilot program.

"(C) Contents of report.—Each report required by this subsection shall include, for the period covered by the report—

"(i) the number of firearms described in subsection (a)(2) transferred under the pilot program; and

"(ii) information on any crimes committed using firearms transferred under the pilot program.

"(c) Limitation on Transfer of Surplus Caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 Pistols.—The Secretary may not transfer firearms described in subsection (b)(2) under subchapter II of chapter 407 of title 36, United States Code, until the date that is 60 days after the date of the submittal of the final report required under subsection (b)(4)(B)."