### §8460. Midshipmen: clothing and equipment; uniform allowance

The Secretary of the Navy may prescribe the amount to be credited to a midshipman, upon original admission to the Naval Academy, for the cost of his initial issue of clothing and equipment. That amount shall be deducted from his pay. If a midshipman is discharged before graduation while owing the United States for pay advanced for the purchase of required clothing and equipment, he shall turn in as much of his clothing and equipment of a distinctively military nature as is necessary to repay the amount advanced. If the value of the clothing and equipment turned in does not cover the amount owed, the indebtedness shall be canceled.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 432, §6960; renumbered §8460, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(c)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*              |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| 6960              | 34 U.S.C. 1052a.     | Aug. 22, 1951, ch. 340, §1, 65 Stat. 196. |

The word "new" before "midshipmen" and the word "subsequently" after "deducted" are omitted as surplusage. The words "while owing the United States for pay advanced for the purchase of" are substituted for the words "who is indebted to the United States on account of advances of pay to purchase".

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 6960 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.