### §8453. Midshipmen: appointment

Midshipmen at the Naval Academy shall be appointed by the President alone. An appointment is conditional until the midshipman is admitted.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 429, §6953; Pub. L. 97–60, title II, §203(b)(1), Oct. 14, 1981, 95 Stat. 1006; renumbered §8453, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(c)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes

This section is included in this chapter without specific reference to statutory source to resolve the ambiguities and conflicts existing in the statutes relating to the appointment of midshipmen at the Naval Academy. The word "appoint" has been used in various statutes when the intent of Congress was to provide authority in the persons named to "choose," "select," or "nominate" for the office of midshipman. These statutes have been collected and codified in §6954 of this title, which reflects the various sources of nominees for "appointment" as midshipmen and the persons who may so "nominate" them. The actual appointing power resides in the President and this implied authority is herein expressed for clarity and for the purpose of uniformity of expression.

#### Amendments

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 6953 of this title as this section.

**1981**—Pub. L. 97–60 inserted provision that an appointment is conditional until the midshipman is admitted.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 97–60 effective with respect to nominations for appointment to the first class admitted to each Academy after Oct. 14, 1981, see section 203(d) of Pub. L. 97–60, set out as an Effective Date note under section 7441a of this title.