### §3509. Notification of violations of Federal criminal law or overpayments

(a) Definition.—In this section, the term "covered contract" means any contract in an amount greater than $5,000,000 and more than 120 days in duration.

(b) Federal Acquisition Regulation.—The Federal Acquisition Regulation shall include, pursuant to FAR Case 2007–006 (as published at 72 Fed. Reg. 64019, November 14, 2007) or any follow-on FAR case, provisions that require timely notification by Federal contractors of violations of Federal criminal law or overpayments in connection with the award or performance of covered contracts or subcontracts, including those performed outside the United States and those for commercial items.

(Pub. L. 111–350, §3, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3770; Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §836(b)(14), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1864.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                  |
| ------------------ | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 3509               | 41:251 note.         | Pub. L. 110–252, title VI, §§6102, 6103, June 30, 2008, 122 Stat. 2386, 2387. |

In subsection (b), the words "shall include" are substituted for "shall be amended" and "to include" to reflect the permanence of the provision. The words "within 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act" are omitted as obsolete.

#### Amendment of Subsection (b)

Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §836(b)(14), (h), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1864, 1874, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2020, subject to a savings provision, subsection (b) of this section is amended by striking "commercial items" and inserting "commercial products or commercial services". See 2018 Amendment note below.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 115–232 substituted "commercial products or commercial services" for "commercial items".

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Jan. 1, 2020, subject to a savings provision, see section 836(h) of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as an Effective Date of 2018 Amendment; Savings Provision note under section 453b of Title 6, Domestic Security.