### §7081. Dental Corps: Chief, functions

(a) The Chief of the Dental Corps shall be an officer of that corps appointed as prescribed in section 3039 [1](#7081_1_target) of this title.

(b) Under such regulations as the Secretary of the Army may prescribe, all dental functions of the Army shall be under the direction of the Chief of the Dental Corps. All matters relating to dentistry shall be referred to the Chief of the Dental Corps.

(c) The Chief of the Dental Corps shall—

(1) establish professional standards and policies for dental practice;

(2) initiate and recommend action pertaining to organization requirements and utilization of the Dental Corps and dental auxiliary strength, appointments, advancement, training assignments, and transfer of dental personnel; and

(3) serve as the adviser to the Office of the Surgeon General on all matters relating directly to dentistry.

  

(d) Under such regulations as the Secretary of the Army may prescribe, dental and dental auxiliary personnel throughout the Army shall be organized into units commanded by a designated commissioned officer of the Army Medical Department. Such officer will be directly responsible to the commander of installations, organizations, and activities for all professional and technical matters and such administrative matters as may be prescribed by regulation.

(Added Pub. L. 95–485, title VIII, §805(b)(1), Oct. 20, 1978, 92 Stat. 1621, §3081; amended Pub. L. 99–433, title V, §502(f)(3), Oct. 1, 1986, 100 Stat. 1042; renumbered §7081, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1838; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title VII, §714, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1446.)

#### References in Text

Section 3039 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, §502(n)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2103.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7081 was renumbered section 8581 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 116–92 substituted "commissioned officer of the Army Medical Department" for "Dental Corps Officer".

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 3081 of this title as this section.

**1986**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99–433 substituted "section 3039" for "section 3040".

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#7081_1)