### §6663. National activities

#### (a) Purpose

The purpose of this section is to promote new and existing evidence-based strategies to encourage innovative American history, civics and government, and geography instruction, learning strategies, and professional development activities and programs for teachers, principals, or other school leaders, particularly such instruction, strategies, activities, and programs that benefit low-income students and underserved populations.

#### (b) In general

From the amounts reserved by the Secretary under section 6661(b)(2) of this title, the Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities for the purposes of expanding, developing, implementing, evaluating, and disseminating for voluntary use, innovative, evidence-based approaches or professional development programs in American history, civics and government, and geography, which—

(1) shall—

(A) show potential to improve the quality of student achievement in, and teaching of, American history, civics and government, or geography, in elementary schools and secondary schools; and

(B) demonstrate innovation, scalability, accountability, and a focus on underserved populations; and

  

(2) may include—

(A) hands-on civic engagement activities for teachers and students; and

(B) programs that educate students about the history and principles of the Constitution of the United States, including the Bill of Rights.

#### (c) Program periods and diversity of projects

#### (1) In general

A grant awarded by the Secretary to an eligible entity under this section shall be for a period of not more than 3 years.

#### (2) Renewal

The Secretary may renew a grant awarded under this section for 1 additional 2-year period.

#### (3) Diversity of projects

In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall ensure that, to the extent practicable, grants are distributed among eligible entities that will serve geographically diverse areas, including urban, suburban, and rural areas.

#### (d) Applications

In order to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may reasonably require.

#### (e) Eligible entity

In this section, the term "eligible entity" means an institution of higher education or other nonprofit or for-profit organization with demonstrated expertise in the development of evidence-based approaches with the potential to improve the quality of American history, civics and government, or geography learning and teaching.

(Pub. L. 89–10, title II, §2233, as added Pub. L. 114–95, title II, §2002, Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 1947.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6663, Pub. L. 89–10, title II, §2203, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title II, §201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1647, authorized appropriations to carry out part B of former subchapter II of this chapter, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 114–95, title II, §2002, Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 1913.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95, set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under section 6301 of this title.