### §561. Definitions

In this subchapter:

#### (1) Administration

The term "Administration" means the Transportation Security Administration.

#### (2) Administrator

The term "Administrator" means the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.

#### (3) Plan

The term "Plan" means the strategic 5-year technology investment plan developed by the Administrator under section 563 of this title.

#### (4) Security-related technology

The term "security-related technology" means any technology that assists the Administration in the prevention of, or defense against, threats to United States transportation systems, including threats to people, property, and information.

(Pub. L. 107–296, title XVI, §1601, as added Pub. L. 113–245, §3(a), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 2871.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1601 of Pub. L. 107–296, title XVI, Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2312, amended sections 114 and 40119 of Title 49, Transportation, see section 3(c) of Pub. L. 113–245, set out as a note below.

#### Findings

Pub. L. 113–245, §2, Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 2871, provided that: "Congress finds the following:

"(1) The Transportation Security Administration has not consistently implemented Department of Homeland Security policies and Government best practices for acquisition and procurement.

"(2) The Transportation Security Administration has only recently developed a multiyear technology investment plan, and has underutilized innovation opportunities within the private sector, including from small businesses.

"(3) The Transportation Security Administration has faced challenges in meeting key performance requirements for several major acquisitions and procurements, resulting in reduced security effectiveness and wasted expenditures."

#### Prior Amendments Not Affected

Pub. L. 113–245, §3(c), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 2877, provided that: "Nothing in this section \[enacting this subchapter\] may be construed to affect any amendment made by title XVI of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 \[title XVI of Pub. L. 107–296, amending sections 114, 40119, 44935 and 46301 of Title 49, Transportation\] as in effect before the date of enactment of this Act \[Dec. 18, 2014\]."