### §80301. International agreements

(a) General Authority.—The President may make agreements with interested maritime countries to—

(1) maintain in the North Atlantic Ocean a service of ice patrol, of study and observation of ice and current conditions, and of assistance to vessels and their crews requiring assistance within the limits of the patrol;

(2) maintain a service of study and observation of ice and current conditions in the waters affecting the set and drift of ice in the North Atlantic Ocean; and

(3) take all practicable steps to ensure the destruction or removal of derelicts in the northern part of the Atlantic Ocean, east of the line drawn from Cape Sable to a point in latitude 34 degrees north, longitude 70 degrees west, if the destruction or removal is necessary.

  

(b) Payment Between Countries.—The President may include in an agreement under subsection (a) a provision for—

(1) payment to the United States Government by other countries for their proportionate share of the expense of maintaining the services; or

(2) contribution by the Government for its proportionate share if the agreement provides for another country to maintain the services.

  

(c) Payments.—Payments received pursuant to subsection (b)(1) shall be credited to the appropriation for operating expenses of the Coast Guard.

(Pub. L. 109–304, §11, Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1692; Pub. L. 113–281, title III, §314(a)(1), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3049.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*               |
| ------------------ | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| 80301              | 46 App.:738.         | June 25, 1936, ch. 807, §1, 49 Stat. 1922. |

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2014**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 113–281 added subsec. (c).

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2014 Amendment

Pub. L. 113–281, title III, §314(c), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3049, provided that: "This section \[enacting section 80304 of this title and amending this section and section 80302 of this title\] shall take effect on January 1, 2017."