### §2380a. Treatment of certain products and services as commercial products and commercial services

(a) Goods and Services Provided by Nontraditional Defense Contractors.—Notwithstanding section 2376(1) of this title, products and services provided by nontraditional defense contractors (as that term is defined in section 2302(9) of this title) may be treated by the head of an agency as commercial products and commercial services, respectively, for purposes of this chapter.

(b) Services Provided by Certain Nontraditional Contractors.—Notwithstanding section 2376(1) of this title, services provided by a business unit that is a nontraditional defense contractor (as that term is defined in section 2302(9) of this title) shall be treated as commercial services for purposes of this chapter, to the extent that such services use the same pool of employees as used for commercial customers and are priced using methodology similar to methodology used for commercial pricing.

(Added Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title VIII, §857(a), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 921, §2380A; renumbered §2380a and amended Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §878(a), (b)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2312; Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §836(d)(6), (8)(F), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1868, 1869.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, §836(d)(8)(F), substituted "products and services as commercial products and commercial services" for "items as commercial items" in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–232, §836(d)(6)(A), substituted "products and" for "items and" and "commercial products and commercial services, respectively," for "commercial items".

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 115–232, §836(d)(6)(B), substituted "commercial services" for "commercial items".

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328, §878(b)(1), which directed amendment of "Section 2380A of title 10" by striking out the section catchline and inserting "§2380a. Treatment of certain items as commercial items", was executed by redesignating this section as section 2380a and substituting "Treatment of certain items as commercial items" for "Treatment of goods and services provided by nontraditional defense contractors as commercial items" in section catchline, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Pub. L. 114–328, §878(a), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Jan. 1, 2020, subject to a savings provision, see section 836(h) of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as an Effective Date of 2018 Amendment; Savings Provision note under section 453b of Title 6, Domestic Security.