### §9225. Enhanced inspection authorities

#### (a) Report required

Not later than 180 days after February 18, 2016, and annually thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that identifies foreign ports and airports at which inspections of ships, aircraft, and conveyances originating in North Korea, carrying North Korean property, or operated by the Government of North Korea are not sufficient to effectively prevent the facilitation of any of the activities described in section 9214(a) of this title.

#### (b) Enhanced customs inspection requirements

The Secretary of Homeland Security may require enhanced inspections of any goods entering the United States that have been transported through a port or airport identified by the President under subsection (a).

#### (c) Seizure and forfeiture

A vessel, aircraft, or conveyance used to facilitate any of the activities described in section 9214(a) of this title under the jurisdiction of the United States may be seized and forfeited under—

(1) chapter 46 of title 18; or

(2) title V [1](#9225_1_target) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.).

(Pub. L. 114–122, title II, §205, Feb. 18, 2016, 130 Stat. 108.)

#### References in Text

The Tariff Act of 1930, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), is act June 17, 1930, ch. 497, 46 Stat. 590, which is classified generally to chapter 4 (§1202 et seq.) of Title 19, Customs Duties. The Act does not contain a title V. Section 1501 et seq. of Title 19 is contained in title IV of the Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1654 of Title 19 and Tables.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#9225_1)