### §9223. Proliferation prevention sanctions

#### (a) Export of certain goods or technology

A validated license shall be required for the export to North Korea of any goods or technology otherwise covered under section 4605(j) of title 50. No defense exports may be approved for the Government of North Korea.

#### (b) Transactions in lethal military equipment

#### (1) In general

The President shall withhold assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) to the government of any country that provides lethal military equipment to the Government of North Korea.

#### (2) Applicability

The prohibition under paragraph (1) with respect to a government shall terminate on the date that is 1 year after the date on which the prohibition under paragraph (1) is applied to that government.

#### (c) Waiver

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of State may waive the prohibitions under this section with respect to a country if the Secretary—

(1) determines that such waiver is in the national interest of the United States; and

(2) submits a written report to the appropriate congressional committees that describes—

(A) the steps that the relevant agencies are taking to curtail the trade described in subsection (b)(1); and

(B) why such waiver is in the national interest of the United States.

#### (d) Exception

The prohibitions under this section shall not apply to the provision of assistance for human rights, democracy, rule of law, or emergency humanitarian purposes.

(Pub. L. 114–122, title II, §203, Feb. 18, 2016, 130 Stat. 106.)

#### References in Text

The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is Pub. L. 87–195, Sept. 4, 1961, 75 Stat. 424, which is classified principally to chapter 32 (§2151 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2151 of this title and Tables.