### §194. Annual Board of Visitors

(a) In General.—A Board of Visitors to the Coast Guard Academy is established to review and make recommendations on the operation of the Academy.

(b) Membership.—

(1) In general.—The membership of the Board shall consist of the following:

(A) The chairman of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, or the chairman's designee.

(B) The chairman of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, or the chairman's designee.

(C) 3 Members of the Senate designated by the Vice President.

(D) 4 Members of the House of Representatives designated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

(E) 6 individuals designated by the President.

  

(2) Length of service.—

(A) Members of congress.—A Member of Congress designated under subparagraph (C) or (D) of paragraph (1) as a member of the Board shall be designated as a member in the First Session of a Congress and serve for the duration of that Congress.

(B) Individuals designated by the president.—Each individual designated by the President under subparagraph (E) of paragraph (1) shall serve as a member of the Board for 3 years, except that any such member whose term of office has expired shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed.

  

(3) Death or resignation of a member.—If a member of the Board dies or resigns, a successor shall be designated for any unexpired portion of the term of the member by the official who designated the member.

  

(c) Academy Visits.—

(1) Annual visit.—The Board shall visit the Academy annually to review the operation of the Academy.

(2) Additional visits.—With the approval of the Secretary, the Board or individual members of the Board may make other visits to the Academy in connection with the duties of the Board or to consult with the Superintendent of the Academy.

  

(d) Scope of Review.—The Board shall review, with respect to the Academy—

(1) the state of morale and discipline;

(2) the curriculum;

(3) instruction;

(4) physical equipment;

(5) fiscal affairs; and

(6) other matters relating to the Academy that the Board determines appropriate.

  

(e) Report.—Not later than 60 days after the date of an annual visit of the Board under subsection (c)(1), the Board shall submit to the Secretary, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on the actions of the Board during such visit and the recommendations of the Board pertaining to the Academy.

(f) Advisors.—If approved by the Secretary, the Board may consult with advisors in carrying out this section.

(g) Reimbursement.—Each member of the Board and each adviser consulted by the Board under subsection (f) shall be reimbursed, to the extent permitted by law, by the Coast Guard for actual expenses incurred while engaged in duties as a member or adviser.

(Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393, 63 Stat. 510; Pub. L. 101–595, title III, §304, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 2984; Pub. L. 107–295, title IV, §408(a)(1), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2117; Pub. L. 113–281, title II, §211, Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3027.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 14, U.S.C., 1946 ed., §15h (Apr. 16, 1937, ch. 107, §7, 50 Stat. 67; July 15, 1939, ch. 288, 53 Stat. 1044).

Changes were made in phraseology. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### Amendments

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–281 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section consisted of subsecs. (a) to (f) relating to establishment and composition of Board of Visitors, designation of Members, absence of a Member or ex officio Member from an annual meeting, and annual visit to the Academy.

**2002**—Subsec. (b)(2), (5). Pub. L. 107–295 substituted "Transportation and Infrastructure" for "Merchant Marine and Fisheries".

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–595 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows:

"(a) In addition to the Advisory Committee, there shall be appointed in January of each year a Board of Visitors to the Academy, consisting of two Senators and three members of the House of Representatives, appointed by the chairmen of the committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, having cognizance of legislation pertaining to the Academy, the chairmen of said committees being ex officio members of the Board, and of one Senator and two members of the House of Representatives appointed by the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively. Whenever a member or an ex officio member is unable to attend the annual meeting as provided in this section another member may be appointed in his stead in the manner as herein provided but without restriction as to month of appointment.

"(b) Such Board shall visit the Academy annually on a date to be fixed by the Secretary. Each member of the Board shall be reimbursed from Coast Guard appropriations under Government travel regulations for the actual expense incurred by him while engaged in duties as a member of such Board, or such actual expenses as permitted under such regulations shall be defrayed by the Coast Guard."