### §2839. Application of certain authorities and standards to historic military housing and associated historic properties of the Department of the Army

(a) Application of Certain Authority to Capehart and Wherry Era Army Military Family Housing.—The Secretary of the Army, in satisfaction of requirements under division A of subtitle III of title 54 (commonly referred to as the "National Historic Preservation Act"), may apply the authority and standards contained in the document titled "Program Comment for Capehart and Wherry Era Army Family Housing and Associated Structures and Landscape Features (1949-1962)" (published on June 7, 2002) (67 Fed. Reg. 39332) to all military housing (including privatized military housing under subchapter IV of this chapter) constructed during the period beginning on January 1, 1941, and ending on December 31, 1948, located on a military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Army.

(b) Temporary Application of Certain Authority to Vietnam War Era Army Military Housing.—During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 2025 and ending on December 31, 2045, the Secretary of the Army, in satisfaction of requirements under division A of subtitle III of title 54 (commonly referred to as the "National Historic Preservation Act"), may apply the authority and standards contained in the document titled "Program Comment for Vietnam War Era Historic Housing, Associated Buildings and Structures, and Landscape Features (1963-1975)" (published on May 4, 2023) (88 Fed. Reg. 28573) to all military housing (including privatized military housing under subchapter IV of this chapter) constructed after 1975 located on a military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Army.

(c) Report.—As part of each report of the Army required under section 3(c) of Executive Order 13287 (54 U.S.C. 306101 note), the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation a report on the implementation of this section.

(d) Rule of Construction.—Nothing in this section may be construed to preclude or require the amendment of the documents of the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations, Energy and Environment described in subsection (a) and (b) by the Secretary of the Army or the chair of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.

(Added Pub. L. 118–159, div. B, title XXVIII, §2823(a), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2255.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 2025, referred to in subsec. (b), probably means the date of enactment of div. B of Pub. L. 118–159, known as the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, which was approved Dec. 23, 2024.

Executive Order 13287, referred to in subsec. (c), is Ex. Ord. No. 13287, Mar. 3, 2003, 68 F.R. 10635, which is set out as a note under section 306101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.