### §111. Expense allowance of Vice President

There shall be paid to the Vice President in equal monthly installments an expense allowance of $20,000 per annum to assist in defraying expenses relating to or resulting from the discharge of his official duties, for which no accounting, other than for income tax purposes, shall be made by him.

(Added Jan. 19, 1949, ch. 2, §1(c), 63 Stat. 4; amended Oct. 20, 1951, ch. 521, title VI, §619(b), 65 Stat. 570; Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, §1(a), Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 348.)

#### Amendments

**2003**—Pub. L. 108–7 substituted "$20,000" for "$10,000".

**1951**—Act Oct. 20, 1951, made Vice President's expense allowance taxable.

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 108–7 applicable to fiscal year 2003 and each fiscal year thereafter, see section 1(f) of Pub. L. 108–7, set out as a note under section 6102 of Title 2, The Congress.

#### Effective Date of 1951 Amendment

Amendment by act Oct. 20, 1951, effective at noon on Jan. 20, 1953, see section 619(e) of that act, set out as a note under section 102 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective noon, Jan. 20, 1949, see section 3 of act Jan. 19, 1949.

#### Official Temporary Residence of the Vice President

Pub. L. 93–346, July 12, 1974, 88 Stat. 340, as amended by Pub. L. 93–552, title VI, §609(a), Dec. 27, 1974, 88 Stat. 1764; Pub. L. 107–67, title VI, §§635, 636, Nov. 12, 2001, 115 Stat. 553, provided: "That effective July 1, 1974, the Government-owned house together with furnishings, associated grounds (consisting of twelve acres, more or less), and related facilities which have heretofore been used as the residence of the Chief of Naval Operations, Department of the Navy, shall, on and after such date be available for, and are hereby designated as, the temporary official residence of the Vice President of the United States.

"Sec. 2. The temporary official residence of the Vice President shall be adequately staffed and provided with such appropriate equipment, furnishings, dining facilities, services, and other provisions as may be required, under the supervision and direction of the Vice President, to enable him to perform and discharge appropriately the duties, functions, and obligations associated with his high office.

"Sec. 3. The Secretary of the Navy shall, subject to the supervision and control of the Vice President, provide for the military staffing, utilities (including electrical) for, and the care and maintenance of the grounds of the temporary official residence of the Vice President and, subject to reimbursement therefor out of funds appropriated for such purposes, provide for the civilian staffing, care, maintenance, repair, improvement, alteration, and furnishing of such residence.

"Sec. 4. There is hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary from time to time to carry out the foregoing provisions of this joint resolution. During any interim period until and before any such funds are so appropriated, the Secretary of the Navy shall make provision for staffing and other appropriate services in connection with the temporary official residence of the Vice President from funds available to the Department of the Navy, subject to reimbursement therefor from funds subsequently appropriated to carry out the purposes of this joint resolution.

"Sec. 5. After the date on which the Vice President moves into the temporary official residence provided for in this joint resolution no funds may be expended for the maintenance, care, repair, furnishing, or security of any residence for the Vice President other than the temporary official residence provided for in this joint resolution unless the expenditure of such funds is specifically authorized by law enacted after such date.

"Sec. 6. The Secretary of the Navy is authorized and directed, with the approval of the Vice President, to accept donations of money or property for the furnishing of or making improvements in or about, or for use at official functions in or about, the temporary official residence of the Vice President, all such donations to become the property of the United States and to be accounted for as such.

"Sec. 7. \[Amended former section 202 of this title\].

"Sec. 8. \[Amended section 3056(a) of title 18\].

"Sec. 9. It is the sense of Congress that living accommodations, generally equivalent to those available to the highest ranking officer on active duty in each of the other military services, should be provided for the Chief of Naval Operations."

#### Official Residence for the Vice President; Design and Construction; Authorization of Appropriation

Pub. L. 89–386, Apr. 9, 1966, 80 Stat. 106, provided: "That the Administrator of General Services is hereby authorized to plan, design, and construct an official residence for the Vice President of the United States in the District of Columbia.

"Sec. 2. The Administrator is further authorized to use as a site for such residence Federal land and property comprising approximately ten acres at the United States Naval Observatory, the specific area and boundaries thereof to be determined jointly by the General Services Administration and the Department of the Navy: *Provided*, That any roads and improvements thereon for which there is a continued need may be relocated and reconstructed.

"Sec. 3. The Administrator is further authorized to provide for the care, maintenance, repair, improvement, alteration, and furnishing of the official residence and grounds, including heating, lighting, and air conditioning, which services shall be provided at the expense of the United States.

"Sec. 4. The Administrator of General Services is further authorized to accept cash gifts, furniture, and furnishings and other types of gifts on behalf of the United States for use in constructing and furnishing the official residence but without further conditions on use, all such articles thus given to become the property of the United States.

"Sec. 5. There is authorized to be appropriated to the General Services Administration, the sum of $750,000 for planning, design, construction, and costs incidental thereto, including the cost of initial furnishings.

"Sec. 6. There is further authorized to be appropriated to the General Services Administration, annually, such amounts as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of section 3."