### §493. Reports to Congress on the modification of the force structure for the strategic nuclear weapons delivery systems of the United States

Whenever after December 31, 2011, the President proposes a modification of the force structure for the strategic nuclear weapons delivery systems of the United States, the President shall submit to Congress a report on the modification. The report shall include a description of the manner in which such modification will maintain for the United States a range of strategic nuclear weapons delivery systems appropriate for the current and anticipated threats faced by the United States when compared with the current force structure of strategic nuclear weapons delivery systems.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, §1031(b)(3)(B), (C)(ii), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1918, 1919.)

#### Codification

The text of this section is based on Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, §1077, Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1596. Section 1077 of Pub. L. 112–81, formerly classified to section 2514 of Title 50, War and National Defense, was transferred to this section by Pub. L. 112–239, §1031(b)(3)(B)(i)–(iii).

#### Amendments

**2013**—Pub. L. 112–239, §1031(b)(3)(C)(ii), made technical amendments to conform section enumerator and catchline to the style of this title. See Codification note above.

Pub. L. 112–239, §1031(b)(3)(B)(iv), which directed amendment of this section by striking “the date of the enactment of this Act” and inserting “December 31, 2011,” and also contained a single subcl. designated (III) again directing “striking ‘the date of the enactment of this Act’ and inserting ‘December 31, 2011,’ ”, was executed by making the substitution in only one place to reflect the probable intent of Congress because “the date of the enactment of this Act” appeared only one time in this section.