### §8750. Special agents of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service: authority to execute warrants and make arrests

(a) Authority.—The Secretary of the Navy may authorize any Department of the Navy civilian employee described in subsection (b) to have the same authority to execute and serve warrants and other processes issued under the authority of the United States and to make arrests without a warrant as may be authorized under section 1585a of this title for special agents of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service.

(b) Agents To Have Authority.—Subsection (a) applies to any employee of the Department of the Navy who is a special agent of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (or any successor to that service) whose duties include conducting, supervising, or coordinating investigations of criminal activity in programs and operations of the Department of the Navy.

(c) Guidelines for Exercise of Authority.—The authority provided under subsection (a) shall be exercised in accordance with guidelines prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy and approved by the Secretary of Defense and the Attorney General and any other applicable guidelines prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of Defense, or the Attorney General.

(Added Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title V, §554(b)(1)\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–126, §7480; renumbered §8750, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(6), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 8750 and 8751 were renumbered sections 9280 and 9281 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7480 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.