### §8742. Physical examination: employees engaged in hazardous occupations

(a) The Secretary of the Navy may provide for physical examination by civilians of employees engaged in hazardous occupations, where the professional services of the Medical Department are not available. The Secretary may compensate these civilians for their services, on a contract or fee basis, at the rates customary in the locality.

(b) The Secretary, to the extent he considers proper, may delegate the authority conferred by this section to any person in the Department of the Navy, with or without the authority to make successive redelegations.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 462, §7472; renumbered §8742, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(6), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*              |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| 7472              | 5 U.S.C. 415c.       | Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 756, §2, 60 Stat. 853.  |
|                   | 5 U.S.C. 412a.       | Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 756, §39, 60 Stat. 858. |

In subsection (b) the words "except the authority to prescribe regulations" are omitted, since 5 U.S.C. 415c contains no authority for the Secretary of the Navy to prescribe regulations for the administration of that section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8742 was renumbered section 9272 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7472 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.