### §8748. Naval War College and Marine Corps University: civilian faculty members

(a) Authority of Secretary.—The Secretary of the Navy may employ as many civilians as professors, instructors, and lecturers at a school of the Naval War College or of the Marine Corps University as the Secretary considers necessary.

(b) Compensation of Faculty Members.—The compensation of persons employed under this section shall be as prescribed by the Secretary.

(c) Application to Certain Faculty Members.—This section shall not apply with respect to professors, instructors, and lecturers employed at a school of the Naval War College or of the Marine Corps University if the duration of the principal course of instruction offered at the school or college involved is less than 10 months.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 464, §7478; Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XI, §1124(c)(1), Nov. 29, 1989, 103 Stat. 1559; Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title XI, §1109(a), (b)(1), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1927; renumbered §8748, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(6), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                  | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                      |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 7478              | 34 U.S.C. 1071 (less applicability to Naval Academy). | Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 756, §7(a) (less applicability to Naval Academy), 60 Stat. 854. |
|                   | 5 U.S.C. 412a.                                        | Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 756, §39, 60 Stat. 858.                                         |

In subsection (a) the words "for the proper instruction of naval personnel" and in subsection (b) the words "out of naval appropriations" are omitted as surplusage.

In subsection (c) the words "except the authority to prescribe regulations" are omitted, since 34 U.S.C. 1071 contains no authority for the Secretary to prescribe regulations.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8748 was renumbered section 9278 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7478 of this title as this section.

**1997**—Pub. L. 105–85, §1109(b)(1), substituted "Marine Corps University" for "Marine Corps Command and Staff College" in section catchline.

Subsecs. (a), (c). Pub. L. 105–85, §1109(a), substituted "of the Marine Corps University" for "at the Marine Corps Command and Staff College".

**1989**—Pub. L. 101–189 substituted "Naval War College and Marine Corps Command and Staff College: civilian faculty members" for "Naval War College: employment of civilian professors; compensation" as section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

"(a) The Secretary of the Navy may employ as many civilians as professors, instructors, and lecturers at the Naval War College as he considers necessary.

"(b) The compensation of persons employed under this section is as prescribed by the Secretary.

"(c) The Secretary, to the extent he considers proper, may delegate the authority conferred by this section to any person in the Department of the Navy, with or without the authority to make successive redelegations."

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.