### §7440. Quartermaster

The Secretary of the Army shall detail a commissioned officer of the Army as quartermaster for the Corps of Cadets. The quartermaster shall—

(1) buy and issue all supplies for the cadets;

(2) buy and issue all provisions for the mess; and

(3) supervise the mess.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 240, §4340; renumbered §7440, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(c)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1839.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                     |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| 4340              | 10:1067.             | Aug. 7, 1876, ch. 255 (last par.), 19 Stat. 126. |

The words "buy and issue all provisions for the mess" and "supervise the mess" are substituted for the words "all the duties of purveying and supervision for the mess". The word "commissary" is omitted as obsolete. The words "and all supplies of all kinds and descriptions shall be furnished to the cadets at actual cost, without any commission or advance over said cost" are omitted to reflect Title IV of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended (61 Stat. 495), which authorized the Secretary of Defense to prescribe regulations governing the use and sale of certain inventories at cost, including applicable administrative expenses.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 4340 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.