### §7432. Departments and professors: titles

(a) The Secretary of the Army may prescribe the titles of each of the departments of instruction and the professors of the Academy. However, the change of the title of a department or officer does not affect the status, rank, or eligibility for promotion or retirement of, or otherwise prejudice, a professor at the Academy.

(b) Upon becoming the senior professor in a department, a permanent professor thereby becomes the head of that department.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 238, §4332; renumbered §7432, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(c)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1839.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*          | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 4332(a)  4332(b)  | 10:1061a.  10:1087 (proviso). | Dec. 14, 1942, ch. 729, 56 Stat. 1049.  June 26, 1946, ch. 495, §1 (proviso), 60 Stat. 312. |

In subsection (a), the words "now or after December 14, 1942, established at" are omitted as surplusage. The word "precedence" is omitted as covered by the word "rank". The words "pay, allowances" are omitted, since they are determined by the grade held. The words "from time to time", "shall be known", and "operate in any case or on any account" are omitted as surplusage.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7432 was renumbered section 8732 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 4332 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.