### §284. Eradication and control of undesirable species and subspecies

#### (a) Operations in United States

The Secretary of Agriculture either independently or in cooperation with States or political subdivisions thereof, farmers' associations, and similar organizations and individuals, is authorized to carry out operations or measures in the United States to eradicate, suppress, control, and to prevent or retard the spread of undesirable species and subspecies of honeybees.

#### (b) Cooperation with certain foreign governments; measure and character; consultation with Secretary of State

The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to cooperate with the Governments of Canada, Mexico, Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, and Colombia, or the local authorities thereof, in carrying out necessary research, surveys, and control operations in those countries in connection with the eradication, suppression, control, and prevention or retardation of the spread of undesirable species and subspecies of honeybees, including but not limited to Apis mellifera adansonii, commonly known as the African or Brazilian honeybee. The measure and character of cooperation carried out under this subsection on the part of such countries, including the expenditure or use of funds appropriated pursuant to this chapter, shall be such as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture. Arrangements for the cooperation authorized by this subsection shall be made through and in consultation with the Secretary of State.

#### (c) Responsibility for authority to carry out operations

In performing the operations or measures authorized in this chapter, the cooperating foreign country, State, or local agency shall be responsible for the authority to carry out such operations or measures on all lands and properties within the foreign country or State, other than those owned or controlled by the Federal Government of the United States, and for such other facilities and means as in the discretion of the Secretary of Agriculture are necessary.

(Aug. 31, 1922, ch. 301, §3, as added Pub. L. 94–319, §3, June 25, 1976, 90 Stat. 709.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Indemnification for Beekeepers

Pub. L. 91–524, title VIII, §804, Nov. 30, 1970, 84 Stat. 1382, as amended by Pub. L. 93–86, §1(27)(A), Aug. 10, 1973, 87 Stat. 237; Pub. L. 95–113, title II, §207, Sept. 29, 1977, 91 Stat. 921, authorized the Secretary of Agriculture to make indemnity payments, based on net loss, to beekeepers who through no fault of their own lost honey bees after Jan. 1, 1967, as a result of utilization of economic poisons, registered and approved for use by the Federal Government, near or adjacent to the beehives, with this section expired after Sept. 30, 1981.