### §2508. Industrial Base Fund

(a) Establishment.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish an Industrial Base Fund (in this section referred to as the "Fund").

(b) Control of Fund.—The Fund shall be under the control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, acting through the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manufacturing and Industrial Base Policy.

(c) Amounts in Fund.—The Fund shall consist of amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the Fund.

(d) Use of Fund.—Subject to subsection (e), the Fund shall be used—

(1) to support the monitoring and assessment of the industrial base required by this chapter;

(2) to address critical issues in the industrial base relating to urgent operational needs;

(3) to support efforts to expand the industrial base; and

(4) to address supply chain vulnerabilities.

  

(e) Use of Fund Subject to Appropriations.—The authority of the Secretary of Defense to use the Fund under this section in any fiscal year is subject to the availability of appropriations for that purpose.

(f) Expenditures.—The Secretary shall establish procedures for expending monies in the Fund in support of the uses identified in subsection (d), including the following:

(1) Direct obligations from the Fund.

(2) Transfers of monies from the Fund to relevant appropriations of the Department of Defense.

(Added Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §896(b)(1), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4315; amended Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(g)(1), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1601; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, §902(75), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1552.)

#### Renumbering of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1867(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4281, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is renumbered section 4817 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2508 was renumbered section 2522 of this title and subsequently repealed.

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–92 substituted "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment" for "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics".

**2017**—Pub. L. 115–91, §1081(g)(1), made technical amendment to directory language of Pub. L. 111–383, §896(b)(1), which added this section.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(g), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1601, provided that the amendment made by section 1081(g)(1) is effective as of Jan. 7, 2011, and as if included in Pub. L. 111–383 as enacted.