### §146. Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation

(a) In General.—There is in the Office of the Secretary of Defense an office to be known as the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation (in this section referred to as the "Office").

(b) Director.—The Office shall be headed by the Director of the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation, who shall be appointed by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment from among civilian employees of the Federal Government or private individuals who have the following:

(1) Experience in the interagency in the Executive Branch.

(2) Experience in the administration and management of Federal grants programs.

  

(c) Duties.—The Office shall—

(1) serve as the office in the Department of Defense with primary responsibility for—

(A) providing assistance to States, counties, municipalities, regions, and other communities to foster cooperation with military installations to enhance the military mission, achieve facility and infrastructure savings and reduced operating costs, address encroachment and compatible land use issues, support military families, and increase military, civilian, and industrial readiness and resiliency; and

(B) providing adjustment and diversification assistance to State and local governments under section 2391(b) of this title to achieve the objectives described in subparagraph (A);

  

(2) coordinate the provision of such assistance with other organizations and elements of the Department;

(3) provide support to the Economic Adjustment Committee established under Executive Order No. 12788 (57 Fed. Reg. 2213; 10 U.S.C. 2391 note) or any successor to such Committee; and

(4) carry out such other activities as the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment considers appropriate.

  

(d) Annual Report to Congress.—Not later than June 1 each year, the Director of the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the activities of the Office during the preceding year, including the assistance provided pursuant to subsection (c)(1) during such year.

(Added Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §905(a)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3798.)

#### Limitation on Involuntary Separation of Personnel

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §905(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3799, provided that: "No personnel of the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation under section 146 of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)), may be involuntarily separated from service with that Office during the one-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Jan. 1, 2021\], except for cause."

#### Administration of Programs

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §905(c), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3799, provided that: "Any program, project, or other activity administered by the Office of Economic Adjustment of the Department of Defense as of the date of the enactment of this Act \[Jan. 1, 2021\] shall be administered by the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation under section 146 of title 10, United States Code (as so added), after that date."