### §5531. Technical authority for integrated air and missile defense activities and programs

(a) In General.—The Director of the Missile Defense Agency is the technical authority of the Department of Defense for integrated air and missile defense activities and programs, including joint engineering and integration efforts for such activities and programs, including with respect to defining and controlling the interfaces of such activities and programs and the allocation of technical requirements for such activities and programs.

(b) Detailees.—(1) In carrying out the technical authority under paragraph (1),[1](#5531_1_target) the Director may seek to have staff detailed to the Missile Defense Agency from the Joint Functional Component Command for Integrated Missile Defense and the Joint Integrated Air and Missile Defense Organization in a number the Director determines necessary in accordance with subparagraph (B).[2](#5531_2_target)

(2) In detailing staff under subparagraph (A) [3](#5531_3_target) to carry out the technical authority under paragraph (1), [1](#5531_1_target) the total number of staff, including detailees, of the Missile Defense Agency who carry out such authority may not exceed the number that is twice the number of such staff carrying out such authority as of January 1, 2016.

(Added Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, §1649(a), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2194.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XVI, §1686(a), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2628, which was set out in a note under section 4205 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, §1649(b)(4), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2199.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "subsection (a),".](#5531_1)

[2 So in original. Probably should be "paragraph (2).".](#5531_2)

[3 So in original. Probably should be "paragraph (1)".](#5531_3)