### §4704. Defense contractors: listing of suitable employment openings with local employment service office

(a) Regulations.—The Secretary of Defense shall promulgate regulations containing the requirement described in subsection (b) and such other provisions as the Secretary considers necessary to administer such requirement. Such regulations shall require that each contract described in subsection (c) shall contain a clause requiring the contractor to comply with such regulations.

(b) Requirement.—The regulations promulgated under this section shall require each contractor carrying out a contract described in subsection (c) to list immediately with the appropriate local employment service office, and where appropriate the Interstate Job Bank (established by the United States Employment Service), all of its suitable employment openings under such contract.

(c) Covered Contracts.—The regulations promulgated under this section shall apply to any contract entered into with the Department of Defense in an amount of $500,000 or more.

(Added Pub. L. 102–484, div. D, title XLIV, §4470(a)(1), Oct. 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 2753, §2410d; renumbered §2410k and amended Pub. L. 103–35, title II, §§201(b)(1)(A), 202(a)(18)(A), May 31, 1993, 107 Stat. 97, 102; renumbered §4704, Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1863(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4278.)

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.