### §3002. Definitions

#### (a) Applicability of definitions in title 10

Except as provided in subsection (b), the definitions provided in section 101 of title 10 apply to the provisions of this chapter.

#### (b) Additional definitions

In this chapter:

#### (1) Active duty

The term "active duty" means full-time duty in the active service of a uniformed service.

#### (2) Grade

The term "grade" means a step or degree, in a graduated scale of office or rank, that is established and designated as a grade by law or regulation.

#### (3) Officer

The term "officer" means an officer of the commissioned corps.

#### (4) Officer candidate

The term "officer candidate" means an individual who is enrolled in the basic officer training program of the Administration and is under consideration for appointment as an officer under section 3021(a)(2)(A) of this title.

#### (5) Flag officer

The term "flag officer" means an officer serving in, or having the grade of, vice admiral, rear admiral, or rear admiral (lower half).

#### (6) Secretary

The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of Commerce.

#### (7) Administration

The term "Administration" means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(Pub. L. 107–372, title II, §212, Dec. 19, 2002, 116 Stat. 3082; Pub. L. 116–259, title III, §305(c), Dec. 23, 2020, 134 Stat. 1173.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this title", meaning title II of Pub. L. 107–372, Dec. 19, 2002, 116 Stat. 3082, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this title to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3001 of this title and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 857–1 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 107–372.

#### Amendments

**2020**—Subsec. (b)(4) to (7). Pub. L. 116–259 added par. (4) and redesignated former pars. (4) to (6) as (5) to (7), respectively.