### §1622c. Grant program to improve movement of specialty crops

#### (a) Grants authorized

The Secretary may make grants under this section to an eligible entity described in subsection (b)—

(1) to improve the cost-effective movement of specialty crops to local, regional, national, and international markets; and

(2) to address regional intermodal transportation deficiencies that adversely affect the movement of specialty crops to markets inside or outside the United States.

#### (b) Eligible grant recipients

Grants may be made under this section to any of, or any combination of:

(1) State and local governments.

(2) Grower cooperatives.

(3) National, State, or regional organizations of producers, shippers, or carriers.

(4) Other entities as determined to be appropriate by the Secretary.

#### (c) Matching funds

The recipient of a grant under this section shall contribute an amount of non-Federal funds toward the project for which the grant is provided that is at least equal to the amount of grant funds received by the recipient under this section.

#### (d) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

(Pub. L. 110–234, title X, §10403, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1349; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title X, §10403, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2111.)

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

Section was enacted as part of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, and not as part of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 which comprises this chapter.

#### Effective Date

Enactment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 8701 of this title.

#### Definitions

“Secretary” as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see section 8701 of this title.

“Specialty crop” as having the meaning given the term in section 3 of Pub. L. 108–465, set out as a note under section 1621 of this title, see section 10001(1) of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 1622b of this title.