### §6451. Purpose

The purpose of this subpart is to support the operation of local educational agency programs that involve collaboration with locally operated correctional facilities—

(1) to carry out high quality education programs to prepare children and youth for secondary school completion, training, employment, or further education;

(2) to provide activities to facilitate the transition of such children and youth from the correctional program to further education or employment; and

(3) to operate programs in local schools, including schools operated or funded by the Bureau of Indian Education, for children and youth returning from correctional facilities, and programs which may serve at-risk children and youth.

(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, §1421, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, §101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1587; amended Pub. L. 114–95, title I, §1401(8), Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 1903.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6451, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, §1421, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, §101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3597, related to purpose of subpart, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.

#### Amendments

**2015**—Par. (3). Pub. L. 114–95 inserted ", including schools operated or funded by the Bureau of Indian Education," after "local schools".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–95 effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95, set out as a note under section 6301 of this title.