### §6456. Accountability

The State educational agency may—

(1) reduce or terminate funding for projects under this subpart if a local educational agency does not show progress in the number of children and youth attaining a regular high school diploma or its recognized equivalent; and

(2) require correctional facilities or institutions for neglected or delinquent children and youth to demonstrate, after receiving assistance under this subpart for 3 years, that there has been an increase in the number of children and youth returning to school, attaining a regular high school diploma or its recognized equivalent, or attaining employment after such children and youth are released.

(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, §1426, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, §101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1590; amended Pub. L. 114–95, title I, §1401(13), Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 1905.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6456, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, §1426, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, §101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3600, related to accountability, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.

#### Amendments

**2015**—Par. (1). Pub. L. 114–95, §1401(13)(A), substituted "the number of children and youth attaining a regular high school diploma or its recognized equivalent" for "reducing dropout rates for male students and for female students over a 3-year period".

Par. (2). Pub. L. 114–95, §1401(13)(B), substituted "attaining a regular high school diploma" for "obtaining a secondary school diploma" and "attaining employment" for "obtaining employment".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–95 effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95, set out as a note under section 6301 of this title.