### §487. Biannual briefing on missile defense and related activities

(a) In General.—On or about June 1 and December 1 of each year, the officials specified in subsection (b) shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on matters relating to missile defense policies, operations, technology development, and other similar topics as requested by such committees.

(b) Officials Specified.—The officials specified in this subsection are the following:

(1) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition.

(2) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy.

(3) The Director of the Missile Defense Agency.

(4) The Director for Strategy, Plans, and Policy of the Joint Staff.

  

(c) Delegation.—An official specified in subsection (b) may delegate the authority to provide a briefing required by subsection (a) to a member of the Senior Executive Service who reports to the official.

(d) Termination.—The requirement to provide a briefing under subsection (a) shall terminate on January 1, 2028.

(Added Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title XVI, §1651, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 2947.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 487, added Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title IX, §923(b)(1), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 724; amended Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title V, §541(c), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1477; Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title X, §1084(d)(4), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2061, related to annual report on unit operations tempo and personnel tempo, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, §1061(9)(A), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1583.