### §486. Annual reports on racial and ethnic demographics in the military justice system

(a) In General.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary of each military department shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a report on racial, ethnic, and sex demographics in the military justice system during the preceding year. In the case of the Secretary of the Navy, separate reports shall be prepared for the Navy and for the Marine Corps. In the case of the Secretary of the Air Force, separate reports shall be prepared for the Air Force and for the Space Force.

(b) Contents.—The report of a Secretary of a military department for an armed force under subsection (a) shall contain, to the extent possible, statistics on offenses under chapter 47 of this title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), during the year covered by the report, including—

(1) the number of offenses in the armed force that were reported to military officials, disaggregated by—

(A) statistical category as related to the victim; and

(B) statistical category as related to the principal;

  

(2) the number of offenses in the armed forces that were investigated, disaggregated by statistical category as related to the principal;

(3) the number of offenses in which administrative action was imposed, disaggregated by statistical category as related to the principal and each type of administrative action imposed;

(4) the number of offenses in which non judicial punishment was imposed under section 815 of this title (article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), disaggregated by statistical category as related to the principal;

(5) the number of offenses in which charges were preferred, disaggregated by statistical category as related to the principal;

(6) the number of offenses in which charges were referred to court-martial, disaggregated by statistical category as related to the principal and type of court-martial;

(7) the number of offenses which resulted in conviction at court-martial, disaggregated by statistical category as related to the principal and type of court-martial; and

(8) the number of offenses which resulted in acquittal at court-martial, disaggregated by statistical category as related to the principal and type of court-martial.

  

(c) Submission to Congress.—Not later than April 30 of each year in which the Secretary of Defense receives reports under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall forward the reports to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

(e) [1](#486_1_target) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "statistical category" means each of the following categories:

(A) race;

(B) sex;

(C) ethnicity;

(D) rank; and

(E) offense enumerated under chapter 47 of this title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice).

  

(2) The term "principal" has the meaning given that term in section 877 of this title (article 77 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).

(Added Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title V, §549G(a)(1), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 1727.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 486, added Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title II, §241(a)(1), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 549, related to quadrennial report on emerging operational concepts, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, §1061(8)(A), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1583.

[1 So in original. There is no subsec. (d).](#486_1)