### §484. Quarterly cyber operations briefings

(a) Briefings Required.—The Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense committees quarterly briefings on all offensive and significant defensive military operations in cyberspace carried out by the Department of Defense during the immediately preceding quarter.

(b) Elements.—Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the military operations in cyberspace described in such subsection, the following:

(1) An update, set forth separately for each geographic and functional command, that describes the operations carried out by the command and any hostile cyber activity directed at the command.

(2) An overview of authorities and legal issues applicable to the operations, including any relevant legal limitations.

(3) An outline of any interagency activities and initiatives relating to the operations.

(4) Any other matters the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(Added Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title IX, §939(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1888; amended Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XVI, §1632(a), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1738; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVI, §1634(a), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1747.)

#### Amendment of Subsection (b)

Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVI, §1634(a), (d), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1747, 1748, provided that, effective on the date that is 180 days after Dec. 20, 2019, subsection (b) of this section is amended by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5) and by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph (4):

*(4) An overview of the readiness of the Cyber Mission Forces to perform assigned missions that—*

*(A) address all of the abilities of such Forces to conduct cyberspace operations based on capability and capacity of personnel, equipment, training, and equipment condition—*

*(i) using both quantitative and qualitative metrics; and*

*(ii) in a way that is common to all military departments; and*

  

*(B) is consistent with readiness reporting pursuant to section 482 of this title.*

See 2019 Amendment note below.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 484, added Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title III, §324(a)(1), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1677, which related to annual report on aircraft inventory, was repealed by Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, §1061(6)(A), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1583.

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (b)(4), (5). Pub. L. 116–92 added par. (4) and redesignated former par. (4) as (5).

**2017**—Pub. L. 115–91 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, substituted "congressional defense committees" for "Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate", and added subsec. (b).

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVI, §1634(d), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1748, provided that: "The amendments made by subsection (a) \[amending this section\] shall take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 20, 2019\]."

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XVI, §1632(b), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1738, provided that: "The amendments made by subsection (a) \[amending this section\] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 12, 2017\], and shall apply with respect to briefings required \[to\] be provided under section 484 of title 10, United States Code, on or after that date."

#### Initial Briefing

Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title IX, §939(b), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1888, provided that: "The first briefing required under section 484 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall be provided not later than March 1, 2013."