### §3322. Cost contracts

(a) Cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost System of Contracting Prohibited.—The cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting may not be used.

(b) Cost-plus-a-fixed-fee Contracts.—The fee for performing a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for experimental, developmental, or research work may not be more than 15 percent of the estimated cost of the contract, not including the fee. The fee for performing a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for architectural or engineering services for a public work or utility plus the cost of those services to the contractor may not be more than 6 percent of the estimated cost of that work or project, not including fees. The fee for performing any other cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract may not be more than 10 percent of the estimated cost of the contract, not including the fee. Determinations under this subsection of the estimated costs of a contract or project shall be made by the head of the agency at the time the contract is made.

(c) Advance Notice of Certain Subcontracts.—

(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), each cost contract and each cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract shall provide for notice to the agency by the contractor before the making, under the prime contract, of—

(A) a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee subcontract; or

(B) a fixed-price subcontract or purchase order involving more than the greater of (i) the simplified acquisition threshold, or (ii) 5 percent of the estimated cost of the prime contract.

  

(2) Exception.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a prime contract with a contractor that maintains a purchasing system approved by the contracting officer for the contract.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1817(a), (c), (e), (f), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4186, 4187.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

For derivation of subsec. (a) of this section, see Codification note related to subsec. (a) of section 2306 of this title set out under section 3321 of this title.

The text of subsec. (d) of section 2306 of this title, which was transferred to this section, redesignated as subsec. (b), and amended by Pub. L. 116–283, §1817(e), (f)(2), was based on act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 131.

The text of subsec. (e) of section 2306 of this title, which was transferred to this section, redesignated as subsec. (c), and amended by Pub. L. 116–283, §1817(e), (f)(3), was based on act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 131; Pub. L. 98–369, div. B, title VII, §2724, July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 1193; Pub. L. 102–25, title VII, §701(d)(3), Apr. 6, 1991, 105 Stat. 114; Pub. L. 103–355, title IV, 4401(c), Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3348; Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title VIII, §842, Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1552.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–283, §1817(c), (f)(1), transferred first sentence of subsec. (a) of section 3321 of this title to this section, designated it as subsec. (a), and inserted heading.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–283, §1817(e), (f)(2), redesignated subsec. (d) of section 2306 of this title as subsec. (b) of this section and inserted heading.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 116–283, §1817(e), (f)(3), redesignated subsec. (e) of section 2306 of this title as subsec. (c) of this section, inserted subsec. and par. headings, and realigned margin of par. (2).

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.