### §2380a. Treatment of certain items as commercial items

(a) Goods and Services Provided by Nontraditional Defense Contractors.—Notwithstanding section 2376(1) of this title, items and services provided by nontraditional defense contractors (as that term is defined in section 2302(9) of this title) may be treated by the head of an agency as commercial items for purposes of this chapter.

(b) Services Provided by Certain Nontraditional Contractors.—Notwithstanding section 2376(1) of this title, services provided by a business unit that is a nontraditional defense contractor (as that term is defined in section 2302(9) of this title) shall be treated as commercial items for purposes of this chapter, to the extent that such services use the same pool of employees as used for commercial customers and are priced using methodology similar to methodology used for commercial pricing.

(Added Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title VIII, §857(a), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 921; amended Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §878(a), (b)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2312.)

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328, §878(b)(1), which directed amendment of "Section 2380A of title 10" by striking out the section catchline and inserting "§2380a. Treatment of certain items as commercial items", was executed by redesignating this section as section 2380a and substituting "Treatment of certain items as commercial items" for "Treatment of goods and services provided by nontraditional defense contractors as commercial items" in section catchline, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Pub. L. 114–328, §878(a), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).