### §2448b. Independent technical risk assessments

(a) In General.—With respect to a major defense acquisition program, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct or approve independent technical risk assessments—

(1) before any decision to grant Milestone A approval for the program pursuant to section 2366a of this title, that identifies critical technologies and manufacturing processes that need to be matured; and

(2) before any decision to grant Milestone B approval for the program pursuant to section 2366b of this title, any decision to enter into low-rate initial production or full-rate production, or at any other time considered appropriate by the Secretary, that includes the identification of any critical technologies or manufacturing processes that have not been successfully demonstrated in a relevant environment.

  

(b) Guidance.—The Secretary shall issue guidance and a framework for the conduct, execution, and approval of independent technical risk assessments.

(Added Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §807(a)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2261; amended Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, §902(73), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1552.)

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–92 added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a). Text of former subsec. (a) read as follows: "With respect to a major defense acquisition program, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that an independent technical risk assessment is conducted—

"(1) before any decision to grant Milestone A approval for the program pursuant to section 2366a of this title, that identifies critical technologies and manufacturing processes that need to be matured; and

"(2) before any decision to grant Milestone B approval for the program pursuant to section 2366b of this title, any decision to enter into low-rate initial production or full-rate production, or at any other time considered appropriate by the Secretary, that includes the identification of any critical technologies or manufacturing processes that have not been successfully demonstrated in a relevant environment."

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–92 added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Text of former subsec. (b) read as follows: "The Secretary shall issue guidance and a framework for categorizing the degree of technical and manufacturing risk in a major defense acquisition program."

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to major defense acquisition programs that reach Milestone A after Oct. 1, 2017, see section 807(a)(2) of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 2448a of this title.