### §2448a. Program cost, fielding, and performance goals in planning major defense acquisition programs

(a) Program Cost and Fielding Targets.—(1) Before funds are obligated for technology development, systems development, or production of a major defense acquisition program, the designated milestone decision authority for the program shall ensure, by establishing the goals described in paragraph (2), that the program will—

(A) be affordable;

(B) incorporate program planning that anticipates the evolution of capabilities to meet changing threats, technology insertion, and interoperability; and

(C) be fielded when needed.

  

(2) The goals described in this paragraph are goals for—

(A) the procurement unit cost and sustainment cost (referred to in this section as the "program cost targets");

(B) the date for initial operational capability (referred to in this section as the "fielding target"); and

(C) technology maturation, prototyping, and a modular open system approach to evolve system capabilities and improve interoperability.

  

(b) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "procurement unit cost" has the meaning provided in section 2432(a)(2) of this title.

(2) The term "initial capabilities document" has the meaning provided in section 2366a(d)(2) of this title.

(Added Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §807(a)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2260; amended Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §831(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1857.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1847(e)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4256, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 322 of this title, inserted after the table of sections at the beginning of subchapter IV, and redesignated as section 4271 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 115–232, §831(a)(1), (2), in introductory provisions, substituted "designated milestone decision authority for the program shall ensure, by establishing the goals described in paragraph (2), that the program" for "Secretary of Defense shall ensure, by establishing the goals described in paragraph (2), that the milestone decision authority for the major defense acquisition program approves a program that".

Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 115–232, §831(a)(3), (4), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (b) read as follows: "The responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense in subsection (a) may be delegated only to the Deputy Secretary of Defense."

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §807(a)(2), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2261, provided that: "Subchapter III of chapter 144B of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with respect to major defense acquisition programs that reach Milestone A after October 1, 2017."

#### Program Cost and Field Targets

Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title IX, §925(b), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2361, as amended by Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §831(b)(4), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1857, provided that: "The Secretary of Defense shall establish a process to develop program cost and fielding targets pursuant to section 2448a of title 10, United States Code, that—

"(1) is co-chaired by the designated milestone decision authority for the major defense acquisition program and the Vice Chief of Staff of the armed force concerned or, in the case of a program for which an alternate milestone decision authority is designated under section 2430(d)(2) of such title, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff;

"(2) is supported by—

"(A) the Joint Staff, to provide expertise on joint military capabilities, capability gaps, and performance requirements;

"(B) the Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, to provide expertise in resource allocation, operations research, systems analysis, and cost estimation; and

"(C) other Department of Defense organizations determined appropriate by the Secretary; and

"(3) ensures that appropriate trade-offs are made among life-cycle cost, schedule, and performance objectives and procurement quantity objectives."