### §410*oo*–3. Administration

#### (a) In general

The Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with this subchapter and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including the Act entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes", approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1–4) [1](#410oo-3_1_target) and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461–467).[1](#410oo-3_1_target) Properties acquired under this subchapter for purposes of inclusion in the park shall be available for visitor inspection and enjoyment as promptly as practicable after the date of acquisition notwithstanding the absence of a park management plan.

#### (b) Donations

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may accept and expend donations of funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, or public entities for the purpose of providing services and facilities which he deems consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.

#### (c) Historic districts

#### (1) Study of historic properties

The Secretary shall prepare and transmit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a study of the properties in the city of Natchez and its immediate environs that preserve and interpret the history contained in the purposes of this subchapter. Such report shall consider which properties best exemplify such purposes and appropriate means for providing technical assistance to, and interpretation of, such properties. The study and report shall include consideration of Natchez-Under-the-Hill and the Briars.

#### (2) Establishment of districts

Following completion of the study under paragraph (1), but not later than one year after October 7, 1988, the Secretary shall establish historic districts in the city of Natchez and its immediate environs for the preservation and interpretation of the resources that contribute to the understanding of the purposes of this subchapter.

#### (3) Cooperative agreements with owners

In furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter, and after consultation with the Advisory Commission established by this subchapter, the Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with the owners of properties of historical or cultural significance (as determined by the Secretary) within any historic district established under this subsection. Such agreements shall permit the Secretary to mark, interpret, improve, restore, and provide technical assistance with respect to the preservation and interpretation of such properties. Such agreements shall contain, but need not be limited to, provisions that the Secretary shall have the right of access at reasonable times to public portions of any property covered by such agreement for purposes of conducting visitors through such properties and interpreting them to the public, and that no changes or alterations shall be made in the property except by mutual agreement between the Secretary and other parties to the agreement.

#### (d) General management plan

Within three complete fiscal years after October 7, 1988, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a general management plan for the park. The plan shall be prepared in accordance with section 100502 of title 54. Such plan shall identify appropriate facilities for proper interpretation of the site for visitors.

(Pub. L. 100–479, §4, Oct. 7, 1988, 102 Stat. 2325.)

#### References in Text

The Act entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes", approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1–4), referred to in subsec. (a), is act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408, 39 Stat. 535, known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, amended sections 22 and 43 of this title and section 1457 of Title 43, Public Lands, and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 1 of this title. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as section 1865(a) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, by Pub. L. 113–287, §§3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3094, 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1916 Act note set out under section 100101 of Title 54 and Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

The Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461–467), referred to in subsec. (a), is act Aug. 21, 1935, ch. 593, 49 Stat. 666, known as the "Historic Sites, Buildings and Antiquities Act", which enacted sections 461 to 467 of this title. The Act was repealed and restated as section 1866(a) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and sections 102303 and 102304 and chapter 3201 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, by Pub. L. 113–287, §§3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3094, 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

#### Codification

In subsec. (d), "section 100502 of title 54" substituted for "section 12(b) of the Act of August 18, 1970 (84 Stat. 825; 16 U.S.C. 1a–1 through 1a–7)" on authority of Pub. L. 113–287, §6(e), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272, which Act enacted Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

#### Change of Name

Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#410oo-3_1)