### §283a–2. Annual reporting regarding training of graduate students for doctoral degrees

#### (a) In general

Each institution receiving an award under this subchapter for the training of graduate students for doctoral degrees shall annually report to the Director of NIH, with respect to graduate students supported by the National Institutes of Health at such institution—

(1) the percentage of such students admitted for study who successfully attain a doctoral degree; and

(2) for students described in paragraph (1), the average time between the beginning of graduate study and the receipt of a doctoral degree.

#### (3) [1](#283a-2_1_target) Provision of information to applicants

Each institution described in subsection (a) shall provide to each student submitting an application for a program of graduate study at such institution the information described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of such subsection with respect to the program or programs to which such student has applied.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, §403C, as added Pub. L. 109–482, title I, §104(a)(3), Jan. 15, 2007, 120 Stat. 3692; amended Pub. L. 110–85, title XI, §1104(5), Sept. 27, 2007, 121 Stat. 975; Pub. L. 114–255, div. A, title II, §2042(c), Dec. 13, 2016, 130 Stat. 1073.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 403C of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 403D and is classified to section 283a–3 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 114–255 struck out "(not including any leaves of absence)" after "time".

**2007**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110–85, §1104(5)(A), substituted "graduate students supported by the National Institutes of Health" for "each degree-granting program" in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 110–85, §1104(5)(B), inserted "such" after "percentage of".

Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 110–85, §1104(5)(C), inserted "(not including any leaves of absence)" after "average time".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482, set out as an Effective Date of 2007 Amendment note under section 281 of this title.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "(b)".](#283a-2_1)