### §2893. Community participation

#### (a) Business and Community Liaison

Each Job Corps center shall have a Business and Community Liaison (referred to in this Act as a “Liaison”), designated by the director of the center.

#### (b) Responsibilities

The responsibilities of the Liaison shall include—

(1) establishing and developing relationships and networks with—

(A) local and distant employers; and

(B) applicable one-stop centers and applicable local boards,

  

for the purpose of providing job opportunities for Job Corps graduates; and

(2) establishing and developing relationships with members of the community in which the Job Corps center is located, informing members of the community about the projects of the Job Corps center and changes in the rules, procedures, or activities of the center that may affect the community, and planning events of mutual interest to the community and the Job Corps center.

#### (c) New centers

The Liaison for a Job Corps center that is not yet operating shall establish and develop the relationships and networks described in subsection (b) of this section at least 3 months prior to the date on which the center accepts the first enrollee at the center.

(Pub. L. 105–220, title I, §153, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1014.)

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 105–220, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 936, as amended, known as the Workforce Investment Act of 1998. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9201 of Title 20, Education, and Tables.