### §3014. Additional special assessment

(a) In General.—Beginning on the date of enactment of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 and ending on September 30, 2019, in addition to the assessment imposed under section 3013, the court shall assess an amount of $5,000 on any non-indigent person or entity convicted of an offense under—

(1) chapter 77 (relating to peonage, slavery, and trafficking in persons);

(2) chapter 109A (relating to sexual abuse);

(3) chapter 110 (relating to sexual exploitation and other abuse of children);

(4) chapter 117 (relating to transportation for illegal sexual activity and related crimes); or

(5) section 274 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324) (relating to human smuggling), unless the person induced, assisted, abetted, or aided only an individual who at the time of such action was the alien's spouse, parent, son, or daughter (and no other individual) to enter the United States in violation of law.

  

(b) Satisfaction of Other Court-Ordered Obligations.—An assessment under subsection (a) shall not be payable until the person subject to the assessment has satisfied all outstanding court-ordered fines, orders of restitution, and any other obligation related to victim-compensation arising from the criminal convictions on which the special assessment is based.

(c) Establishment of Domestic Trafficking Victims' Fund.—There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund, to be known as the "Domestic Trafficking Victims' Fund" (referred to in this section as the "Fund"), to be administered by the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

(d) Transfers.—In a manner consistent with section 3302(b) of title 31, there shall be transferred to the Fund from the General Fund of the Treasury an amount equal to the amount of the assessments collected under this section, which shall remain available until expended.

(e) Use of Funds.—

(1) In general.—From amounts in the Fund, in addition to any other amounts available, and without further appropriation, the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019, use amounts available in the Fund to award grants or enhance victims' programming under—

(A) section 204 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044c); [1](#3014_1_target)

(B) subsections (b)(2) and (f) of section 107 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105);

(C) section 214(b) of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13002(b)); [1](#3014_1_target) and

(D) section 106 of the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (42 U.S.C. 17616).[1](#3014_1_target)

  

(2) Limitation.—Except as provided in subsection (h)(2), none of the amounts in the Fund may be used to provide health care or medical items or services.

  

(f) Collection Method.—The amount assessed under subsection (a) shall, subject to subsection (b), be collected in the manner that fines are collected in criminal cases.

(g) Duration of Obligation.—Subject to section 3613(b), the obligation to pay an assessment imposed on or after the date of enactment of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 shall not cease until the assessment is paid in full.

(h) Health or Medical Services.—

(1) Transfer of funds.—From amounts appropriated under subparagraphs (E) and (F) of section 10503(b)(1) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b–2(b)(1)), there shall be transferred to the Fund an amount equal to the amount transferred under subsection (d) for each fiscal year, except that the amount transferred under this paragraph shall not be less than $5,000,000 or more than $30,000,000 in each such fiscal year, and such amounts shall remain available until expended.

(2) Use of funds.—The Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall use amounts transferred to the Fund under paragraph (1) to award grants that may be used for the provision of health care or medical items or services to victims of trafficking under—

(A) sections 202, 203, and 204 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044a, 14044b, and 14044c); [1](#3014_1_target)

(B) subsections (b)(2) and (f) of section 107 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105); and

(C) section 214(b) of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13002(b)).[1](#3014_1_target)

  

(3) Grants.—Of the amounts in the Fund used under paragraph (1), not less than $2,000,000, if such amounts are available in the Fund during the relevant fiscal year, shall be used for grants to provide services for child pornography victims under section 214(b) of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13002(b)).[1](#3014_1_target)

(4) Application of provision.—The application of the provisions of section 221(c) of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 and section 50901(e) of the Advancing Chronic Care, Extenders, and Social Services Act shall continue to apply to the amounts transferred pursuant to paragraph (1).

(Added and amended Pub. L. 114–22, title I, §101(a), title IX, §905, May 29, 2015, 129 Stat. 228, 266; Pub. L. 115–96, div. C, title I, §3101(e), Dec. 22, 2017, 131 Stat. 2049; Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title IX, §50901(f), Feb. 9, 2018, 132 Stat. 289.)

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (g), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 114–22, which was approved May 29, 2015.

Sections 202, 203, and 204 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005, referred to in subsecs. (e)(1)(A) and (h)(2)(A), are sections 202, 203, and 204 of Pub. L. 109–164, which were classified to sections 14044a, 14044b, and 14044c, respectively, of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as sections 20702, 20703, and 20705, respectively, of Title 34, Crime Control and Law Enforcement.

Section 214(b) of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, referred to in subsecs. (e)(1)(C) and (h)(2)(C), (3), is section 214(b) of title II of Pub. L. 101–647, which was classified to section 13002(b) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as section 20304(b) of Title 34, Crime Control and Law Enforcement.

Section 106 of the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008, referred to in subsec. (e)(1)(D), is section 106 of Pub. L. 110–401, which was classified to section 17616 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as section 21116 of Title 34, Crime Control and Law Enforcement.

Section 221 of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, referred to in subsec. (h)(1), (4), is section 221 of Pub. L. 114–10, title II, Apr. 16, 2015, 129 Stat. 154. Section 221(a)(1) of the Act amended section 254b–2(b)(1)(E) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Section 221(c) of the Act provided for a condition on certain appropriations and is not classified to the Code.

Section 50901(e) of the Advancing Chronic Care, Extenders, and Social Services Act, referred to in subsec. (h)(4), is section 50901(e) of Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title IX, Feb. 9, 2018, 132 Stat. 289. Section 50901(e) of the Act related to application of amounts appropriated pursuant to that section and is not classified to the Code.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (h)(4). Pub. L. 115–123 substituted "and section 50901(e) of the Advancing Chronic Care, Extenders, and Social Services Act" for "and section 3101(d) of the CHIP and Public Health Funding Extension Act".

**2017**—Subsec. (h)(1). Pub. L. 115–96, §3101(e)(1), substituted "subparagraphs (E) and (F) of section 10503(b)(1) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b–2(b)(1))" for "section 10503(b)(1)(E) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b–2(b)(1)(E)), as amended by section 221 of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015".

Subsec. (h)(4). Pub. L. 115–96, §3101(e)(2), inserted "and section 3101(d) of the CHIP and Public Health Funding Extension Act" after "section 221(c) of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015".

**2015**—Subsec. (e)(1)(D). Pub. L. 114–22, §905, added subpar. (D).

[1 See References in Text note below.](#3014_1)