### §8912. Agricultural biosecurity communication center

#### (a) Establishment

The Secretary shall establish a communication center within the Department to—

(1) collect and disseminate information and prepare for an agricultural disease emergency, agroterrorist act, or other threat to agricultural biosecurity; and

(2) coordinate activities described in paragraph (1) among agencies and offices within the Department.

#### (b) Relation to existing DHS communication systems

#### (1) Consistency and coordination

The communication center established under subsection (a) shall, to the maximum extent practicable, share and coordinate the dissemination of timely information with the Department of Homeland Security and other communication systems of appropriate Federal departments and agencies.

#### (2) Avoiding redundancies

Paragraph (1) shall not be construed to impede, conflict with, or duplicate the communications activities performed by the Secretary of Homeland Security under any provision of law.

#### (c) Authorization of appropriations

There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

(Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, §14112, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1455; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title XIV, §14112, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2217.)

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see section 8701 of this title.