### §242. Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign

#### (a) Definition

In this section, the term "human trafficking" means an act or practice described in paragraph (9) or (10) of section 7102 of title 22.

#### (b) Establishment

There is established within the Department a program, which shall be known as the "Blue Campaign". The Blue Campaign shall be headed by a Director, who shall be appointed by the Secretary.

#### (c) Purpose

The purpose of the Blue Campaign shall be to unify and coordinate Department efforts to address human trafficking.

#### (d) Responsibilities

The Secretary, working through the Director, shall, in accordance with subsection (e)—

(1) issue Department-wide guidance to appropriate Department personnel;

(2) develop training programs for such personnel;

(3) coordinate departmental efforts, including training for such personnel; and

(4) provide guidance and training on trauma-informed practices to ensure that human trafficking victims are afforded prompt access to victim support service providers, in addition to the assistance required under section 7105 of title 22, to address their immediate and long-term needs.

#### (e) Guidance and training

The Blue Campaign shall provide guidance and training to Department personnel and other Federal, State, tribal, and law enforcement personnel, as appropriate, regarding—

(1) programs to help identify instances of human trafficking;

(2) the types of information that should be collected and recorded in information technology systems utilized by the Department to help identify individuals suspected or convicted of human trafficking;

(3) systematic and routine information sharing within the Department and among Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement agencies regarding—

(A) individuals suspected or convicted of human trafficking; and

(B) patterns and practices of human trafficking;

  

(4) techniques to identify suspected victims of trafficking along the United States border and at airport security checkpoints;

(5) methods to be used by the Transportation Security Administration and personnel from other appropriate agencies to—

(A) train employees of the Transportation Security Administration to identify suspected victims of trafficking; and

(B) serve as a liaison and resource regarding human trafficking prevention to appropriate State, local, and private sector aviation workers and the traveling public;

  

(6) utilizing resources, such as indicator cards, fact sheets, pamphlets, posters, brochures, and radio and television campaigns to—

(A) educate partners and stakeholders; and

(B) increase public awareness of human trafficking;

  

(7) leveraging partnerships with State and local governmental, nongovernmental, and private sector organizations to raise public awareness of human trafficking; and

(8) any other activities the Secretary determines necessary to carry out the Blue Campaign.

(Pub. L. 107–296, title IV, §434, as added Pub. L. 115–125, §2(a), Feb. 14, 2018, 132 Stat. 315.)

#### Information Technology Systems

Pub. L. 115–125, §3, Feb. 14, 2018, 132 Stat. 316, provided that: "Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Feb. 14, 2018\], the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure, in accordance with the Department of Homeland Security-wide guidance required under section 434(d) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 \[6 U.S.C. 242(d)\], as added by section 2 of this Act, the integration of information technology systems utilized within the Department to record and track information regarding individuals suspected or convicted of human trafficking (as such term is defined in such section)."