### §1501a. Public-private partnerships; other forms of support

(a) Public-private Partnerships.—The Secretary of Defense may enter into arrangements known as public-private partnerships with appropriate entities outside the Government for the purposes of facilitating the activities of the designated Defense Agency. The Secretary may only partner with foreign governments or foreign entities with the concurrence of the Secretary of State. Any such arrangement shall be entered into in accordance with authorities provided under this section or any other authority otherwise available to the Secretary. Regulations prescribed under subsection (e)(1) shall include provisions for the establishment and implementation of such partnerships.

(b) Acceptance of Voluntary Personal Services.—The Secretary of Defense may accept voluntary services to facilitate accounting for missing persons in the same manner as the Secretary of a military department may accept such services under section 1588(a)(9) of this title.

(c) Cooperative Agreements and Grants.—

(1) In general.—The Secretary of Defense may enter into a cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to, a private entity for purposes related to support of the activities of the designated Defense Agency.

(2) Inapplicability of certain contract requirements.—Notwithstanding section 2304(k) of this title, the Secretary may enter such cooperative agreements or grants on a sole-source basis pursuant to section 2304(c)(5) of this title.

  

(d) Use of Department of Defense Personal Property.—The Secretary may allow a private entity to use, at no cost, personal property of the Department of Defense to assist the entity in supporting the activities of the designated Defense Agency.

(e) Regulations.—

(1) In general.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to implement this section.

(2) Limitation.—Such regulations shall provide that acceptance of a gift (including a gift of services) or use of a gift under this section may not occur if the nature or circumstances of the acceptance or use would compromise the integrity, or the appearance of integrity, of any program of the Department of Defense or any individual involved in such program.

  

(f) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) Cooperative agreement.—The term "cooperative agreement" means an authorized cooperative agreement as described in section 6305 of title 31.

(2) Grant.—The term "grant" means an authorized grant as described in section 6304 of title 31.

(Added Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title IX, §916(b), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3477.)