### §5305c. Advisory group

#### (a) In general

To assist in carrying out this chapter, the Secretary may convene an advisory group consisting of individuals representing public and private organizations actively involved in the conservation of rhinoceros and tiger species.

#### (b) Public participation

#### (1) Meetings

The Advisory Group [1](#5305c_1_target) shall—

(A) ensure that each meeting of the advisory group is open to the public; and

(B) provide, at each meeting, an opportunity for interested persons to present oral or written statements concerning items on the agenda.

#### (2) Notice

The Secretary shall provide to the public timely notice of each meeting of the advisory group.

#### (3) Minutes

Minutes of each meeting of the advisory group shall be kept by the Secretary and shall be made available to the public.

#### (c) Exemption from chapter 10 of title 5

Chapter 10 of title 5 shall not apply to the advisory group.

(Pub. L. 103–391, §9, as added Pub. L. 107–112, §4, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 2097; amended Pub. L. 117–286, §4(a)(123), Dec. 27, 2022, 136 Stat. 4319.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 9 of Pub. L. 103–391 was renumbered section 10 and is classified to section 5306 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2022**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 117–286 substituted "chapter 10 of title 5" for "Federal Advisory Committee Act" in heading and "Chapter 10 of title 5" for "The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.)" in text.

[1 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized.](#5305c_1)