### §21023. Requirements for eligibility

#### (a) Application

Each State or unit of local government that desires to receive a payment under this subpart for a fiscal year shall submit an application for the payment to the Secretary at such time and in such manner and containing such information as the Secretary shall require.

#### (b) Contents of application

Each application submitted under subsection (a) of this section shall—

(1) describe the activities for which assistance under this section is sought; and

(2) provide such additional information and certifications as the Secretary determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart.

#### (c) Protection against actions based on information in application

#### (1) In general

No action may be brought under this chapter against a State or unit of local government on the basis of any information contained in the application submitted under subsection (a) of this section.

#### (2) Exception for criminal acts

Paragraph (1) may not be construed to limit the liability of a State or unit of local government for criminal acts or omissions.

(Pub. L. 107–252, title II, §263, Oct. 29, 2002, 116 Stat. 1698.)

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 107–252, Oct. 29, 2002, 116 Stat. 1666, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 15423 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering in Title 52, Voting and Elections.