### §356. Continuation pay: full TSP members with 12 years of service

(a) Continuation Pay.—The Secretary concerned shall make a payment of continuation pay to each full TSP member (as defined in section 8440e(a) of title 5) of the uniformed services under the jurisdiction of the Secretary who—

(1) completes 12 years of service; and

(2) enters into an agreement with the Secretary to serve for an additional 4 years of obligated service.

  

(b) Amount.—The amount of continuation pay payable to a full TSP member under subsection (a) shall be the amount that is equal to—

(1) in the case of a member of a regular component—

(A) the monthly basic pay of the member at 12 years of service multiplied by 2.5; plus

(B) at the discretion of the Secretary concerned, the monthly basic pay of the member at 12 years of service multiplied by such number of months (not to exceed 13 months) as the Secretary concerned shall specify in the agreement of the member under subsection (a); and

  

(2) in the case of a member of a reserve component—

(A) the amount of monthly basic pay to which the member would be entitled at 12 years of service if the member were a member of a regular component multiplied by 0.5; plus

(B) at the discretion of the Secretary concerned, the amount of monthly basic pay described in subparagraph (A) multiplied by such number of months (not to exceed 6 months) as the Secretary concerned shall specify in the agreement of the member under subsection (a).

  

(c) Additional Discretionary Authority.—In addition to the continuation pay required under subsection (a), the Secretary concerned may provide continuation pay under this subsection to a full TSP member described in subsection (a), and subject to the service agreement referred to in paragraph (2) of such subsection, in an amount determined by the Secretary concerned.

(d) Timing of Payment.—The Secretary concerned shall pay continuation pay under subsection (a) to a full TSP member when the member completes 12 years of service. If the Secretary concerned also provides continuation pay under subsection (c) to the member, that continuation pay shall be provided when the member completes 12 years of service.

(e) Lump Sum or Installments.—A full TSP member may elect to receive continuation pay provided under subsection (a) or (c) in a lump sum or in a series of not more than four payments.

(f) Relationship to Other Pay and Allowances.—Continuation pay under this section is in addition to any other pay or allowance to which the full TSP member is entitled.

(g) Repayment.—A full TSP member who receives continuation pay under this section (a) [1](#356_1_target) and fails to complete the obligated service required under such subsection shall be subject to the repayment provisions of section 373 of this title.

(h) Regulations.—Each Secretary concerned shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

(Added Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title VI, §634(a), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 850.)

#### Effective Date; Implementation

Section effective Jan. 1, 2018, with certain implementation requirements, see section 635 of Pub. L. 114–92, set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment; Implementation note under section 8432 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

[1 So in original.](#356_1)