### §6211. The continuing mission of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty broadcasts

It is the sense of Congress that Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty should continue to broadcast to the peoples of Central Europe, Eurasia, and the Persian Gulf until such time as—

(1) a particular nation has clearly demonstrated the successful establishment and consolidation of democratic rule; and

(2) its domestic media which provide balanced, accurate, and comprehensive news and information, is firmly established and widely accessible to the national audience, thus making redundant broadcasts by Radio Free Europe or Radio Liberty.

  

At such time as a particular nation meets both of these conditions, RFE/RL should phase out broadcasting to that nation.

(Pub. L. 103–236, title III, §312, Apr. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 444; Pub. L. 106–113, §1000(a)(7) \[div. A, title V, §503\], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1536, 1501A–451.)

#### Amendments

**1999**—Pub. L. 106–113 amended section catchline and text generally, substituting present provisions for provisions which set forth sense of Congress that funding of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty be privatized not later than Dec. 31, 1999, directed President to submit analysis and recommendation for achieving this objective with his annual budget submission, and directed Board for International Broadcasting to submit to appropriate congressional committees not later than 120 days after Apr. 30, 1994, report on steps being taken to transfer RFE/RL Research Institute, and periodic progress reports until such transfer would be achieved.