### §6213. Definitions

For the purposes of this chapter—

(1) the term "appropriate congressional committees" means the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives;

(4) [1](#6213_1_target) the terms "Board" and "Chief Executive Officer of the Board" mean the Broadcasting Board of Governors and the position, respectively, authorized in accordance with this chapter;

(3) the term "RFE/RL, Incorporated" includes—

(A) the corporation having the corporate title described in section 6206(b)(3) [2](#6213_2_target) of this title; and

(B) any alternative grantee described in section 6206(e) [3](#6213_3_target) of this title; and

  

(4) the term "salary or other compensation" includes any deferred compensation or pension payments, any payments for expenses for which the recipient is not obligated to itemize, and any payments for personnel services provided to an employee of RFE/RL, Incorporated.

(Pub. L. 103–236, title III, §314, Apr. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 445; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, §1288(8), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2554.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in introductory provisions, was in the original "this title", meaning title III of Pub. L. 103–236, Apr. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 432, known as the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6201 of this title and Tables.

This chapter, referred to in the first par. (4), was in the original "this Act", and was translated as reading "this title", meaning title III of Pub. L. 103–236, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. See above.

Section 6206 of this title, referred to in par. (3), which related to the International Broadcasting Bureau and did not contain a subsec. (b)(3), was repealed by Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, §1288(4), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2552.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pars. (2) to (4). Pub. L. 114–328 redesignated par. (2) as (3) and par. (3) as (4) defining "salary or other compensation" and added par. (4) defining "Board" and "Chief Executive Officer of the Board" after par. (1).

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Broadcasting Board of Governors renamed United States Agency for Global Media pursuant to section 6204(a)(22) of this title. The renaming was effectuated by notice to congressional appropriations committees dated May 24, 2018, and became effective Aug. 22, 2018.

[1 So in original. Probably should be designated as par. (2).](#6213_1)

[2 See References in Text note below.](#6213_2)

[3 So in original. Probably should be section "6207(d)".](#6213_3)