### §6209a. Inspector General authorities

#### (a) In general

The Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign Service shall exercise the same authorities with respect to the Broadcasting Board of Governors as the Inspector General exercises under the Inspector General Act of 1978 \[5 U.S.C. App.\] and section 3929 of this title with respect to the Department of State.

#### (b) Respect for journalistic integrity of broadcasters

The Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign Service shall respect the journalistic integrity of all the broadcasters covered by this chapter and may not evaluate the philosophical or political perspectives reflected in the content of broadcasts.

(Pub. L. 103–236, title III, §310A, as added Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, §1288(7), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2554.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Inspector General Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 95–452, Oct. 12, 1978, 92 Stat. 1101, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original "this Act", and was translated as reading "this title", meaning title III of Pub. L. 103–236, Apr. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 432, known as the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994, which is classified principally to this chapter, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6201 of this title and Tables.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Broadcasting Board of Governors renamed United States Agency for Global Media pursuant to section 6204(a)(22) of this title. The renaming was effectuated by notice to congressional appropriations committees dated May 24, 2018, and became effective Aug. 22, 2018.