### §780. Establishment of National Council on Disability

#### (a) Membership; purpose

(1)(A) There is established within the Federal Government a National Council on Disability (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the “National Council”), which shall be composed of fifteen members appointed by the President.

(B) The President shall select members of the National Council after soliciting recommendations from representatives of—

(i) organizations representing a broad range of individuals with disabilities; and

(ii) organizations interested in individuals with disabilities.

  

(C) The members of the National Council shall be individuals with disabilities, parents or guardians of individuals with disabilities, or other individuals who have substantial knowledge or experience relating to disability policy or programs. The members of the National Council shall be appointed so as to be representative of individuals with disabilities, national organizations concerned with individuals with disabilities, providers and administrators of services to individuals with disabilities, individuals engaged in conducting medical or scientific research relating to individuals with disabilities, business concerns, and labor organizations. A majority of the members of the National Council shall be individuals with disabilities. The members of the National Council shall be broadly representative of minority and other individuals and groups.

(2) The purpose of the National Council is to promote policies, programs, practices, and procedures that—

(A) guarantee equal opportunity for all individuals with disabilities, regardless of the nature or severity of the disability; and

(B) empower individuals with disabilities to achieve economic self-sufficiency, independent living, and inclusion and integration into all aspects of society.

#### (b) Term of office

(1) Each member of the National Council shall serve for a term of 3 years, except that the terms of service of the members initially appointed after November 6, 1978, shall be (as specified by the President) for such fewer number of years as will provide for the expiration of terms on a staggered basis.

(2)(A) No member of the National Council may serve more than two consecutive full terms beginning on the date of commencement of the first full term on the Council. Members may serve after the expiration of their terms until their successors have taken office.

(B) As used in this paragraph, the term “full term” means a term of 3 years.

(3) Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which such member's predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term.

#### (c) Chairperson; meetings

The President shall designate the Chairperson from among the members appointed to the National Council. The National Council shall meet at the call of the Chairperson, but not less often than four times each year.

#### (d) Quorum; vacancies

Eight members of the National Council shall constitute a quorum and any vacancy in the National Council shall not affect its power to function.

(Pub. L. 93–112, title IV, §400, as added Pub. L. 105–220, title IV, §407, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1198; amended Pub. L. 112–166, §2(q), Aug. 10, 2012, 126 Stat. 1288.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 780, Pub. L. 93–112, title IV, §400, as added Pub. L. 95–602, title I, §117, Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2977; amended Pub. L. 98–221, title I, §141(a), Feb. 22, 1984, 98 Stat. 26; Pub. L. 99–506, title I, §103(d)(2)(C), title V, §501, title X, §1001(e), Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 1810, 1828, 1843; Pub. L. 100–630, title II, §205(b), Nov. 7, 1988, 102 Stat. 3310; Pub. L. 102–569, title I, §102(p)(26), title IV, §401, Oct. 29, 1992, 106 Stat. 4360, 4421, related to establishment of the National Council on Disability, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 105–220.

Another prior section 780, Pub. L. 93–112, title IV, §400, Sept. 26, 1973, 87 Stat. 385, related to general administrative powers of Secretary under this chapter, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 95–602, §117.

#### Amendments

**2012**—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). Pub. L. 112–166 struck out “, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate” before period at end.

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 112–166 effective 60 days after Aug. 10, 2012, and applicable to appointments made on and after that effective date, including any nomination pending in the Senate on that date, see section 6(a) of Pub. L. 112–166, set out as a note under section 113 of Title 6, Domestic Security.