### §7106. Administrative appeals

Application for review on appeal may be made within the one-year period prescribed in section 7105 of this title by such officials of the Department as may be designated by the Secretary. An application entered under this paragraph shall not operate to deprive the claimant of the right of review on appeal as provided in this chapter.

(Added Pub. L. 87–666, §1, Sept. 19, 1962, 76 Stat. 554, §4006; renumbered §7106 and amended Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, §402(b)(1), (d)(1), May 7, 1991, 105 Stat. 238, 239; Pub. L. 102–83, §4(a)(3), (4), (b)(1), (2)(E), Aug. 6, 1991, 105 Stat. 404, 405.)

#### Repeal of Section

Pub. L. 115–55, §2(s)(1), (x), Aug. 23, 2017, 131 Stat. 1112, 1115, provided that, applicable to all claims for which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs provides notice of a decision under section 5104 of this title on or after the later of 540 days after Aug. 23, 2017, or 30 days after the date on which the Secretary submits to Congress a certification of certain capabilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs to carry out the new appeals system established by Pub. L. 115–55 and to address appeals of decisions on legacy claims, with provision for early applicability of the new appeals system to certain claims, this section is repealed.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in subsec. (c)(2) of former section 4005 of this title, prior to the general amendment of sections 4005 to 4007 by Pub. L. 87–666.

#### Amendments

**1991**—Pub. L. 102–40 renumbered section 4006 of this title as this section and substituted "7105" for "4005".

Pub. L. 102–83 substituted "Secretary" for "Administrator" and "Department" for "Veterans' Administration".

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal applicable to all claims for which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs provides notice of a decision under section 5104 of this title on or after the later of 540 days after Aug. 23, 2017, or 30 days after the date on which the Secretary submits to Congress a certification of certain capabilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs to carry out the new appeals system established by Pub. L. 115–55 and to address appeals of decisions on legacy claims, with provision for early applicability of the new appeals system to certain claims, see section 2(x) of Pub. L. 115–55, set out as an Effective Date of 2017 Amendment note under section 101 of this title.