### §5335. Open data publication

All public data assets published by the Secretary under this part shall be—

(1) made available as an open Government data asset (as defined in section 3502 of title 44);

(2) freely available for download;

(3) rendered in a human-readable format; and

(4) accessible via application programming interface where appropriate.

(Pub. L. 111–203, title I, §125, as added Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LVIII, §5812(a), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3423.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rulemaking

Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LVIII, §5812(c), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3423, provided that:

"(1) In general.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall issue rules to carry out the amendments made by this section \[enacting this section\], which shall take effect not later than 2 years after the date on which final rules are promulgated under section 124(b)(2) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 \[12 U.S.C. 5334(b)(2)\], as added by section 5811(a) of this title.

"(2) Delegation.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Treasury may delegate the functions required under the amendments made by this subtitle \[subtitle A (§§5811–5813) of title LVIII of div. E of Pub. L. 117–263, enacting this section and section 5334 of this title\] to an appropriate office within the Department of the Treasury."

#### Rule of Construction

Enactment of section not to be construed to require certain additional information to be collected or disclosed, see section 5813 of Pub. L. 117–263, set out as a note under section 5334 of this title.