### §49c–1. Transfer to States of property used by United States Employment Service

For the purpose of assisting the State employment services established and maintained in accordance with the terms of the Act of June 6, 1933, entitled "An Act to provide for the establishment of a National Employment System and for cooperation with the States in the promotion of such system, and for other purposes", as amended (48 Stat. 113; 49 Stat. 216) \[29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.\], the Secretary of Labor is authorized without payment of compensation to transfer and assign to the States in which it is located all property, including records, files, and office equipment, used by the United States Employment Service in its administrative and local employment offices in the respective States, except the records, files, and property used in the Veterans' Service and in the Farm Placement Service maintained under the said Act, as soon as such States establish and maintain systems of public employment offices, in accordance with the terms of sections 4, 5, and 8 of the said Act \[29 U.S.C. 49c, 49d, 49g\] and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

(Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 693, 53 Stat. 1409; Ex. Ord. No. 9247, Sept. 17, 1942, 7 F.R. 7379; Ex. Ord. No. 9617, Sept. 19, 1945, 10 F.R. 11929; June 16, 1948, ch. 472, title I, 62 Stat. 446; 1949 Reorg. Plan No. 2, §1, eff. Aug. 20, 1949, 14 F.R. 5225, 63 Stat. 1065.)

#### References in Text

Act of June 6, 1933, and the said Act, referred to in text, are act June 6, 1933, ch. 49, 48 Stat. 113, known as the Wagner-Peyser Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 49 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

This section was not enacted as part of the Wagner-Peyser Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Transfer of Functions

For history of transfer of functions of United States Employment Service to Secretary of Labor, see note set out under section 49 of this title.