### §8062. United States Navy: composition; functions

(a) The Navy, within the Department of the Navy, includes, in general, naval combat and service forces and such aviation as may be organic therein. The Navy shall be organized, trained, and equipped primarily for prompt and sustained combat incident to operations at sea. It is responsible for the preparation of naval forces necessary for the effective prosecution of war except as otherwise assigned and, in accordance with integrated joint mobilization plans, for the expansion of the peacetime components of the Navy to meet the needs of war.

(b) The naval combat forces of the Navy shall include not less than 11 operational aircraft carriers. For purposes of this subsection, an operational aircraft carrier includes an aircraft carrier that is temporarily unavailable for worldwide deployment due to routine or scheduled maintenance or repair.

(c) All naval aviation shall be integrated with the naval service as part thereof within the Department of the Navy. Naval aviation consists of combat and service and training forces, and includes land-based naval aviation, air transport essential for naval operations, all air weapons and air techniques involved in the operations and activities of the Navy, and the entire remainder of the aeronautical organization of the Navy, together with the personnel necessary therefor.

(d) The Navy shall develop aircraft, weapons, tactics, technique, organization, and equipment of naval combat and service elements. Matters of joint concern as to these functions shall be coordinated between the Army, the Air Force, and the Navy.

(e) The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that—

(1) the Navy maintains a minimum of 9 carrier air wings until the earlier of—

(A) the date on which additional operationally deployable aircraft carriers can fully support a 10th carrier air wing; or

(B) October 1, 2025;

  

(2) after the earlier of the two dates referred to in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1), the Navy maintains a minimum of 10 carrier air wings; and

(3) for each such carrier air wing, the Navy maintains a dedicated and fully staffed headquarters.

  

(f) A nuclear powered aircraft carrier may not be retired before its first refueling.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 277, §5012; renumbered §5062 and amended Pub. L. 99–433, title V, §511(b)(3), (4), Oct. 1, 1986, 100 Stat. 1043; Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title I, §126(a), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3159; Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title X, §1011(a), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2374; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title X, §1042(a), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2393; renumbered §8062, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(a)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1834; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, §1054, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3850.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                   |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| 5012              | 5 U.S.C. 411a(b).    | July 26, 1947, ch. 343, §206(b), 61 Stat. 501. |

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8062 was renumbered section 9062 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 116–283 added subsec. (f).

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 5062 of this title as this section.

**2016**—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 114–328 added subsec. (e).

**2006**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 109–364 substituted "11" for "12".

Pub. L. 109–163, §126(a)(2), added subsec. (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (c).

Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 109–163, §126(a)(1), redesignated subsecs. (b) and (c) as (c) and (d), respectively.

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–433, §511(b)(3), renumbered section 5012 of this title as this section.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99–433, §511(b)(4)(A), substituted "assigned and, in accordance with integrated joint mobilization plans, for the expansion of the peacetime components of the Navy to meet the needs of war" for "assigned and is generally responsible for naval reconnaissance, antisubmarine warfare, and protection of shipping".

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 99–433, §511(b)(4)(B), struck out subsec. (d) which related to responsibility for expansion of peacetime naval components to meet the needs of war.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.