### §7671. Evaluation and assessment of agricultural research, extension, and education programs

#### (a) Evaluation

The Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct a performance evaluation to determine whether federally funded agricultural research, extension, and education programs result in public goods that have national or multistate significance.

#### (b) Contract

The Secretary shall enter into a contract with 1 or more entities with expertise in research assessment and performance evaluation to provide input and recommendations to the Secretary with respect to federally funded agricultural research, extension, and education programs.

#### (c) Guidelines for performance measurement

The contractor selected under subsection (b) of this section shall develop and propose to the Secretary practical guidelines for measuring performance of federally funded agricultural research, extension, and education programs. The guidelines shall be consistent with the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 (Public Law 103–62) and amendments made by that Act.

(Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, §631, June 23, 1998, 112 Stat. 608.)

#### References in Text

The Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 103–62, Aug. 3, 1993, 107 Stat. 285, which enacted sections 1115 to 1119, 9703, and 9704 of Title 31, Money and Finance, section 306 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and sections 2801 to 2805 of Title 39, Postal Service, amended section 1105 of Title 31, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1101 and 1115 of Title 31. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1993 Amendment note set out under section 1101 of Title 31 and Tables.