### §7672. Study of federally funded agricultural research, extension, and education

#### (a) Study

Not later than January 1, 1999, the Secretary of Agriculture shall request the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of the role and mission of federally funded agricultural research, extension, and education.

#### (b) Requirements

The study shall—

(1) evaluate the strength of science conducted by the Agricultural Research Service and the relevance of the science to national priorities;

(2) examine how the work of the Agricultural Research Service relates to the capacity of the agricultural research, extension, and education system of the United States;

(3) examine the appropriateness of the formulas for the allocation of funds under the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 341 et seq.) and the Hatch Act of 1887 (7 U.S.C. 361a et seq.) with respect to current conditions of the agricultural economy and other factors of the various regions and States of the United States and develop recommendations to revise the formulas to more accurately reflect the current conditions; and

(4) examine the system of competitive grants for agricultural research, extension, and education.

#### (c) Reports

The Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate—

(1) not later than 18 months after the commencement of the study, a report that describes the results of the study as it relates to paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of this section, including any appropriate recommendations; and

(2) not later than 3 years after the commencement of the study, a report that describes the results of the study as it relates to paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (b) of this section, including the recommendations developed under paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this section and other appropriate recommendations.

(Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, §632, June 23, 1998, 112 Stat. 608.)

#### References in Text

The Smith-Lever Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is act May 8, 1914, ch. 79, 38 Stat. 372, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter IV (§341 et seq.) of chapter 13 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 341 of this title and Tables.

The Hatch Act of 1887, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is act Mar. 2, 1887, ch. 314, 24 Stat. 440, as amended, which is classified generally to sections 361a to 361i of this title. For complete classification of this act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 361a of this title and Tables.