### §300x–53. Additional requirements

#### (a) In general

A funding agreement for a grant under section 300x or 300x–21 of this title is that the State involved will—

(1)(A) for the fiscal year for which the grant involved is provided, provide for independent peer review to assess the quality, appropriateness, and efficacy of treatment services provided in the State to individuals under the program involved; and

(B) ensure that, in the conduct of such peer review, not fewer than 5 percent of the entities providing services in the State under such program are reviewed (which 5 percent is representative of the total population of such entities);

(2) permit and cooperate with Federal investigations undertaken in accordance with section 300x–55 of this title; and

(3) provide to the Secretary any data required by the Secretary pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 290aa–4 of this title and will cooperate with the Secretary in the development of uniform criteria for the collection of data pursuant to such section.

#### (b) Patient records

The Secretary may make a grant under section 300x or 300x–21 of this title only if the State involved has in effect a system to protect from inappropriate disclosure patient records maintained by the State in connection with an activity funded under the program involved or by any entity which is receiving amounts from the grant.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XIX, §1943, as added Pub. L. 102–321, title II, §203(a), July 10, 1992, 106 Stat. 404; amended Pub. L. 102–352, §2(a)(12), Aug. 26, 1992, 106 Stat. 939; Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VIII, §8003(1), Dec. 13, 2016, 130 Stat. 1232.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2016**—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 114–255 substituted "subsections (c) and (d) of section 290aa–4 of this title" for "section 290aa–4 of this title".

**1992**—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 102–352 substituted "section 290aa–4 of this title" for "section 290bb–21 of this title".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 102–352 effective immediately upon effectuation of amendment made by Pub. L. 102–321, see section 3(1) of Pub. L. 102–352, set out as a note under section 285n of this title.