### §3115b. Tribal forest management demonstration project

#### (a) In general

The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary may carry out demonstration projects by which federally recognized Indian Tribes or Tribal organizations may contract to perform administrative, management, and other functions of programs of the Tribal Forest Protection Act of 2004 (25 U.S.C. 3115a et seq.) through contracts entered into under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304 et seq.).

#### (b) Requirements

With respect to any contract or project carried out under subsection (a)—

(1) on National Forest System land, the Secretary shall carry out all functions delegated to the Secretary of the Interior under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304 et seq.);

(2) the Secretary or the Secretary of the Interior, as applicable, shall make any decisions required to be made under—

(A) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and

(B) the Tribal Forest Protection Act of 2004 (25 U.S.C. 3115a et seq.); and

  

(3) the contract or project shall be entered into under, and in accordance with, section 403(b)(2) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2)).

(Pub. L. 115–334, title VIII, §8703, Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 4877.)

#### References in Text

The Tribal Forest Protection Act of 2004, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(2)(B), is Pub. L. 108–278, July 22, 2004, 118 Stat. 868. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1 of Pub. L. 108–278, set out as a Short Title of 2004 Amendment note under section 3101 of this title and Tables.

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), is Pub. L. 93–638, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2203, which is classified principally to chapter 46 (§5301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1 of Pub. L. 93–638, set out as a Short Title note under section 5301 of this title and Tables.

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(A), is Pub. L. 91–190, Jan. 1, 1970, 83 Stat. 852, which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§4321 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4321 of Title 42 and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, and not as part of the National Indian Forest Resources Management Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Definitions

"Secretary" as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see section 2 of Pub. L. 115–334, set out as a note under section 9001 of Title 7, Agriculture.