### §3532. Multiyear contracts for acquisition of services: applicable principles

In entering into multiyear contracts for services under the authority of this subchapter, the head of the agency shall be guided by the following principles:

(1) The portion of the cost of any plant or equipment amortized as a cost of contract performance should not exceed the ratio between the period of contract performance and the anticipated useful commercial life of such plant or equipment. Useful commercial life, for this purpose, means the commercial utility of the facilities rather than the physical life thereof, with due consideration given to such factors as location of facilities, specialized nature thereof, and obsolescence.

(2) Consideration shall be given to the desirability of obtaining an option to renew the contract for a reasonable period not to exceed three years, at prices not to include charges for plant, equipment and other nonrecurring costs, already amortized.

(3) Consideration shall be given to the desirability of reserving in the agency the right, upon payment of the unamortized portion of the cost of the plant or equipment, to take title thereto under appropriate circumstances.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1822(m), (o), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4203.)

#### Codification

The text of subsec. (c) of section 2306c of this title, which was transferred to this section and amended by Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(o), was based on Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title VIII, §802(a)(1)\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–203.

#### Prior Provisions

Section 3532, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 201, provided that a colonel on the active list of the Regular Army who is detailed as special assistant to the Comptroller of the Department of Defense, has the grade of brigadier general while so serving, unless he is entitled to a higher grade, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 96–513, title II, §§210, 233(a), 234, title VII, §701, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2884, 2887, 2955, effective Sept. 15, 1981.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1822(o), transferred subsec. (c) of section 2306c of this title to this section, struck out subsec. (c) designation and heading "Applicable Principles" at beginning, and substituted "this subchapter" for "this section" in introductory provisions.

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.