### §8245. Flight rations

An aircraft flight ration chargeable to the proper Navy or Marine Corps appropriation may be furnished to members of the naval service and to civilian employees of the Department of the Navy while engaged in flight operations. The flight ration is supplementary to any ration or subsistence allowance to which the members or employees are otherwise entitled. However, the flight ration may not be furnished without charge to any person in a travel status or to any person to whom a per diem allowance is granted in place of subsistence.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 380, §6085; renumbered §8245, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(b)(8), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1835.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*         |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| 6085              | 34 U.S.C. 909.       | June 5, 1942, ch. 327, 56 Stat. 308. |

The words "members of the naval service and to civilian employees of the Department of the Navy" are substituted for the words "officers, enlisted men, and civilian employees of the Navy and Marine Corps" for uniformity. The words "in kind" and the word "aircraft" are omitted as surplusage.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 6085 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.