### §399. Domestic raising of fur-bearing animals; classification

For the purposes of all classification and administration of Acts of Congress, Executive orders, administrative orders, and regulations pertaining to—

(a) fox, rabbit, mink, chinchilla, marten, fisher, muskrat, karakul and all other fur-bearing animals, raised in captivity for breeding or other useful purposes shall be deemed domestic animals;

(b) such animals and the products thereof shall be deemed agricultural products; and

(c) the breeding, raising, producing, or marketing of such animals or their products by the producer shall be deemed an agricultural pursuit.

(Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 242, §1, 60 Stat. 127.)

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 433 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Effective Date

Act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 242, §3, 60 Stat. 128, provided that: "This Act \[enacting this section and provisions set out as a note below\] shall take effect sixty days after the date of its enactment \[Apr. 30, 1946\]."

#### Transfer of Functions

Act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 242, §2, 60 Stat. 127; 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2, §102, eff. July 1, 1970, 35 F.R. 7959, 84 Stat. 2085, provided that:

"(a) All the functions of the Secretary of the Interior and the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior, which affect the breeding, raising, producing, marketing, or any other phase of the production or distribution, of domestically raised fur-bearing animals, or products thereof, are hereby transferred to and vested in the Secretary of Agriculture.

"(b) Appropriations and unexpended balances of appropriations, or parts thereof, which the Director of the Office of Management and Budget determines to be available for expenditure for the administration of any function transferred by this Act \[enacting this section and provisions set out as a note above\], shall be available for expenditure for the continued administration of such function by the officer to whom such function is so transferred.

"(c) All records and property (including office furniture and equipment) under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior and the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior used primarily in connection with the administration of functions transferred by this Act are hereby transferred to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture."

\[Section 2 of act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 242, set out above, was formerly classified to section 434 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as this note.\]