### §450ss–5. Limitations on funding

Authorization of Appropriations: [1](#450ss-5_1_target)

#### (1) In general

In furtherance of the purposes of sections 450ss to 450ss–7 of this title, the Secretary may provide, from the National Park Service's National Recreation and Preservation account, the remainder of the sum of $5,000,000 for an endowment fund subject to paragraph (2), to remain available until expended.

#### (2) Matching requirement

Amounts appropriated in any fiscal year to carry out the provisions of sections 450ss to 450ss–7 may only be expended on a matching basis in a ratio of at least one non-Federal dollar to every Federal dollar. For the purposes of this provision, each non-Federal dollar donated to the Foundation for the creation, maintenance, operation, or endowment of the Memorial shall satisfy the matching dollar requirement without regard to the fiscal year in which such donation is made.

(Pub. L. 105–58, §7, Oct. 9, 1997, 111 Stat. 1266; Pub. L. 108–199, div. F, title V, §544(f), Jan. 23, 2004, 118 Stat. 348; Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCV, §9501, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4822.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Par. (1). Pub. L. 116–283 substituted "the Secretary may provide, from the National Park Service's National Recreation and Preservation account, the remainder of" for "there is hereby authorized".

**2004**—Par. (1). Pub. L. 108–199, §544(f)(1), inserted "for an endowment fund subject to paragraph (2)" after "the sum of $5,000,000".

Par. (2). Pub. L. 108–199, §544(f)(2), struck out "Trust or to the Oklahoma City Memorial" after "each non-Federal dollar donated to the" and substituted "operation, or endowment" for "or operation".

[1 So in original. "Appropriations" probably should not be capitalized.](#450ss-5_1)