### §2446c. Requirements relating to availability of major system interfaces and support for modular open system approach

The Secretary of each military department shall—

(1) coordinate with the other military departments, the defense agencies, defense and other private sector entities, national standards-setting organizations, and, when appropriate, with elements of the intelligence community with respect to the specification, identification, development, and maintenance of major system interfaces and standards for use in major system platforms, where practicable;

(2) ensure that major system interfaces incorporate commercial standards and other widely supported consensus-based standards that are validated, published, and maintained by recognized standards organizations to the maximum extent practicable;

(3) ensure that sufficient systems engineering and development expertise and resources are available to support the use of a modular open system approach in requirements development and acquisition program planning;

(4) ensure that necessary planning, programming, and budgeting resources are provided to specify, identify, develop, and sustain the modular open system approach, associated major system interfaces, systems integration, and any additional program activities necessary to sustain innovation and interoperability;

(5) ensure that adequate training in the use of a modular open system approach is provided to members of the requirements and acquisition workforce; and

(6) issue guidance to implement the requirements of this section.

(Added Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §805(a)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2255; amended Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title VIII, §840(b), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1499.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1851(b)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4272, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 327 of this title, as added by section 1851(a) of Pub. L. 116–283, inserted after the table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I, and redesignated as section 4403 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Amendments

**2019**—Par. (6). Pub. L. 116–92 added par. (6).

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 2017, see section 805(a)(4) of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 2446a of this title.