### §8304. Availability of appropriations

The Secretary of the Navy may spend from appropriations for the pay of the Navy or the Marine Corps, as appropriate, amounts necessary to provide and replace medals of honor, Navy crosses, distinguished-service medals, silver star medals, and Navy and Marine Corps Medals, and associated bars, emblems, and insignia.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 391, §6254; renumbered §8304, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(b)(13), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*          | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                               |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 6254              | 34 U.S.C. 359 (less proviso). | Feb. 4, 1919, ch. 14, §6 (less proviso), 40 Stat. 1056; renumbered §8 and amended Aug. 7, 1942, ch. 551, §1, 56 Stat. 744. |

The words "the appropriations for the pay of the Navy or the Marine Corps, as appropriate", are substituted for the words "the appropriation 'Pay, subsistence, and transportation of naval personnel' ", to identify by a general description, rather than by the specific appropriation title, the appropriation authorized to be used. Specific appropriation titles vary from one appropriation act to the next. The permanent authority contained in 34 U.S.C. 359 for the Secretary of the Navy to use appropriations available for the pay of the Navy and the Marine Corps is not affected by a change in the titles of those appropriations nor is it affected by a specific authorization in an appropriation act to use, during the life of the act, a different type of appropriation.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8304, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 515, related to promotion of Air Force nurses or women medical specialists to grades of first lieutenant, captain, major, lieutenant colonel, or colonel, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 85–155, title IV, §401(1), Aug. 21, 1957, 71 Stat. 390.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 6254 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.