### §8295. Distinguished flying cross

The President may award a distinguished flying cross of appropriate design with accompanying ribbon to any person who, while serving in any capacity with the Navy or the Marine Corps, distinguishes himself by heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in an aerial flight.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 390, §6245; renumbered §8295, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(b)(13), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                                           | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                                                       |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 6245              | 34 U.S.C. 364a (1st sentence, less 1st 9 words, and less 2d and 3d sentences). | July 2, 1926, ch. 721, §12 (1st sentence, less 1st 9 words, and less 2d and 3d sentences), 44 Stat. 789; July 30, 1937, ch. 545, §4, 50 Stat. 549. |

The word "award" is substituted for the word "present" to cover the determination of the recipient as well as the actual presenting of the decoration. The words "but not in the name of Congress" are omitted as surplusage, since a decoration is presented in the name of Congress only if the law so directs. The proviso of the first sentence of 34 U.S.C. 364a is omitted as executed. The words "Navy or the Marine Corps" are substituted for the words "United States Navy" because the provision is interpreted as authorizing the award of the decoration to persons serving with the Marine Corps as well as with the Navy. The words "and notwithstanding the provisions of section 14 of this Act," which are not now contained in title 34, are omitted as unnecessary. The words "since the 6th day of April, 1917, has distinguished, or who, after July 2, 1926," are omitted as executed.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8295, acts Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 510; Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85–861, §1(174), 72 Stat. 1519, provided for determination of place on a promotion list of the name of each person who is originally appointed in a commissioned grade in Regular Air Force and whose name is carried on a promotion list, other than persons appointed as medical or dental officers or as an Air Force nurse or medical specialist, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 96–513, title II, §204, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2880, effective Sept. 15, 1981. See section 624 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 6245 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.