### §2492. Nonappropriated fund instrumentalities: contracts with other agencies and instrumentalities to provide and obtain goods and services

An agency or instrumentality of the Department of Defense that supports the operation of the exchange system, or the operation of a morale, welfare, and recreation system, of the Department of Defense may enter into a contract or other agreement with another element of the Department of Defense or with another Federal department, agency, or instrumentality—

(1) to provide or obtain goods and services beneficial to the efficient management and operation of the exchange system or that morale, welfare, and recreation system; or

(2) to provide or obtain food services beneficial to the efficient management and operation of the dining facilities on military installations offering food services to members of the armed forces.

(Added Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title III, §341(a)(1), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2488, §2482a; renumbered §2492, Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VI, §651(c)(3), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 1972; amended Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title VI, §632, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3405.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2492 was renumbered section 2489 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–291 substituted "Federal department, agency, or instrumentality—" for "Federal department, agency, or instrumentality to provide or obtain goods and services beneficial to the efficient management and operation of the exchange system or that morale, welfare, and recreation system." and added pars. (1) and (2).

**2004**—Pub. L. 108–375 renumbered section 2482a of this title as this section.