### §10224. Delegation of functions

The Attorney General, the Assistant Attorney General, the Director of the National Institute of Justice, the Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, and the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance may delegate to any of their respective officers or employees such functions under this chapter as they deem appropriate.

(Pub. L. 90–351, title I, §805, as added Pub. L. 98–473, title II, §609B(g), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2093.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 3786 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 805 of Pub. L. 90–351 was renumbered section 804 and was classified to section 3785 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 109–162.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 12, 1984, see section 609AA(a) of Pub. L. 98–473, set out as a note under section 10101 of this title.

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) to (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) \[title I, §108(b)\] of Pub. L. 106–113, set out as a note under section 10141 of this title.