### §8024. Naval Research Advisory Committee

(a) The Secretary of the Navy may appoint a Naval Research Advisory Committee consisting of not more than 15 civilians preeminent in the fields of science, research, and development work. One member of the Committee must be from the field of medicine. Each member serves for such term as the Secretary specifies.

(b) The Committee shall meet at such times as the Secretary specifies to consult with and advise the Chief of Naval Operations and the Chief of Naval Research.

(c) No law imposing restrictions, requirements, or penalties in relation to the employment of persons, the performance of services, the payment or receipt of compensation in connection with any claim, proceeding, or matter involving the United States applies to members of the Committee solely by reason of their membership on the Committee.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 291, §5153; Pub. L. 97–60, title II, §205, Oct. 14, 1981, 95 Stat. 1007; renumbered §5024 and amended Pub. L. 99–433, title V, §§511(d), 514(d)(2), Oct. 1, 1986, 100 Stat. 1048, 1055; renumbered §8024, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(a)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1834.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                          |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 5153              | 5 U.S.C. 475c.       | Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 727, §4, 60 Stat. 779; Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, §12, 68 Stat. 1229. |

In subsection (c) the words "in the amount" are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (d) references to sections of title 18 and to R.S. 190 are omitted as unnecessary and the words "No law" are substituted for the words "Nothing \* \* \* in any other provision of Federal law".

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8024 was renumbered section 9024 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 5024 of this title as this section.

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–433, §511(d), renumbered section 5153 of this title as this section.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 99–433, §514(d)(2), substituted "claim, proceeding," for "claim proceeding".

**1981**—Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 97–60 redesignated subsec. (d) as (c). Former subsec. (c), which allowed each member of the Committee compensation of $50 for each day or part of a day that the member attended any regularly called meeting of the Committee and also allowed that member reimbursement for all travel expenses incident to that attendance, was struck out.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.