### §5355. Eligibility for funds of tribe or tribal organization controlling or managing private schools

The Secretary is authorized and directed to provide funds, pursuant to this chapter; the the [1](#5355_1_target) Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596), as amended \[25 U.S.C. 5342 et seq.\]; or any other authority granted to him to any tribe or tribal organization which controls and manages any previously private school.

(Pub. L. 93–638, title II, §208, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2216; Pub. L. 97–375, title I, §108(d), Dec. 21, 1982, 96 Stat. 1820.)

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 93–638, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2203, known as the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5301 of this title and Tables.

Act of April 16, 1934, referred to in text, is act Apr. 16, 1934, ch. 147, 48 Stat. 596, popularly known as the Johnson-O'Malley Act, which is classified generally to section 5342 et seq. of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5301 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 458d of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–375 struck out provisions relating to annual reporting requirements of Secretary to Congressional committees respecting educational assistance program conducted pursuant to this section.

[1 So in original.](#5355_1)