### §3511. Benefits available in event of the death of personnel

#### (a) Authority

The Director may pay death benefits substantially similar to those authorized for members of the Foreign Service pursuant to the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.) or any other provision of law. The Director may adjust the eligibility for death benefits as necessary to meet the unique requirements of the mission of the Agency.

#### (b) Regulations

Regulations issued pursuant to this section shall be submitted to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives before such regulations take effect.

(June 20, 1949, ch. 227, §11, as added Pub. L. 96–450, title IV, §403(a), Oct. 14, 1980, 94 Stat. 1978; amended Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title IV, §411, May 5, 2017, 131 Stat. 820.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Foreign Service Act of 1980, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 96–465, Oct. 17, 1980, 94 Stat. 2071, which is classified principally to chapter 52 (§3901 et seq.) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3901 of Title 22 and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 403k of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Pub. L. 115–31 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to Director's authority to pay death gratuities.