### §60501. Goal

The goal for the Administration's Earth Science program shall be to pursue a program of Earth observations, research, and applications activities to better understand the Earth, how it supports life, and how human activities affect its ability to do so in the future. In pursuit of this goal, the Administration's Earth Science program shall ensure that securing practical benefits for society will be an important measure of its success in addition to securing new knowledge about the Earth system and climate change. In further pursuit of this goal, the Administration shall, together with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and other relevant agencies, provide United States leadership in developing and carrying out a cooperative international Earth observations-based research program.

(Pub. L. 111–314, §3, Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3425.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                    |
| ------------------ | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 60501              | 42 U.S.C. 17711.     | Pub. L. 110–422, title II, §201, Oct. 15, 2008, 122 Stat. 4784. |

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Carbon Cycle Remote Sensing Applications Research

Pub. L. 106–391, title III, §315, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1595, provided that:

"(a) Carbon Cycle Remote Sensing Applications Research Program.—

"(1) In general.—The Administrator \[of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration\] shall develop a carbon cycle remote sensing applications research program—

"(A) to provide a comprehensive view of vegetation conditions;

"(B) to assess and model agricultural carbon sequestration; and

"(C) to encourage the development of commercial products, as appropriate.

"(2) Use of centers.—The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall use regional earth science application centers to conduct applications research under this section.

"(3) Researched areas.—The areas that shall be the subjects of research conducted under this section include—

"(A) the mapping of carbon-sequestering land use and land cover;

"(B) the monitoring of changes in land cover and management;

"(C) new approaches for the remote sensing of soil carbon; and

"(D) region-scale carbon sequestration estimation.

"(b) Authorization of Appropriations.—There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 of funds authorized by section 102 \[114 Stat. 1581\] for fiscal years 2001 through 2002."

#### Earth Observing System

Pub. L. 102–588, title I, §102(g), Nov. 4, 1992, 106 Stat. 5111, directed the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to carry out an Earth Observing System program addressing highest priority international climate change research goals; within 180 days after Nov. 4, 1992, submit to Congress a plan to ensure that the highest priority measurements were maintained on schedule to the greatest extent practicable while lower priority measurements were deferred or deleted; and within 90 days after Nov. 4, 1992, submit to Congress a Development Plan.