### §12316. Payment of certain Reserves while on duty

(a) Except as provided by subsection (b), a Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard who because of his earlier military service is entitled to a pension, retired or retainer pay, or disability compensation, and who performs duty for which he is entitled to compensation, may elect to receive for that duty either—

(1) the payments to which he is entitled because of his earlier military service; or

(2) if he specifically waives those payments, the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty that he is performing.

  

(b) Unless the payments because of his earlier military service are greater than the compensation prescribed by subsection (a)(2), a Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard who because of his earlier military service is entitled to a pension, retired or retainer pay, or disability compensation, and who upon being ordered to active duty for a period of more than 30 days in time of war or national emergency is found physically qualified to perform that duty, ceases to be entitled to the payments because of his earlier military service until the period of active duty ends. While on that active duty, he is entitled to the compensation prescribed by subsection (a)(2). Other rights and benefits of the member or his dependents are unaffected by this subsection.

(Added Pub. L. 85–861, §1(15), Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1441, §684; amended Pub. L. 93–586, §1, Jan. 2, 1975, 88 Stat. 1920; renumbered §12316, Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, §1662(e)(2), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2992; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VI, §621(a)—(d), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3675, 3676.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                                                                    | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                                         |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 684(a)            | 10 App.:369b (less proviso and last 3 sentences).  34 App.:853e–1 (less provisos and last 3 sentences). | Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 756, §10; restated Sept. 27, 1950, ch. 1053, §1, 64 Stat. 1067; July 12, 1955, ch. 337, §§1, 4, 69 Stat. 300, 301. |
| 684(b)            | 10 App.:369b (proviso and last 3 sentences).  34 App.:853e–1 (provisos and last 3 sentences).           | Sept. 27, 1950, ch. 1053, §2, 64 Stat. 1067; July 12, 1955, ch. 337, §§2, 4, 69 Stat. 301.                                           |

In subsections (a) and (b), the words "retirement pay" are omitted as covered by the words "retired pay".

In subsection (a), the words "Except as provided by subsection (b)" are inserted for clarity. The words "who performs duty for which he is entitled to compensation, may elect to receive for that duty" are substituted for the words "may elect, with reference to periods of active duty, active duty for training, drill, training, instruction, or other duty for which they may be entitled to receive compensation pursuant to any provisions of law". The words "Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law", in 10 App.:369b, and "or relinquish" are omitted as surplusage.

Subsection (a)(1) is substituted for clause (2) of 10 App.:369b, and clause (2) of 34 App.:853e–1.

In subsection (a)(2), the words "pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty that he is performing" are substituted for clause (1) of 10 App.:369b and 34 App.:853e–1.

In subsection (b), the word "extended", the next to the last sentence of 10 App.: 369b and of 34 App.: 853e–1, and the first proviso of 34 App.:853e–1, are omitted as surplusage.

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VI, §621, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3675, provided that, effective 180 days after Jan. 1, 2021, this section is amended. After such effective date, this section will read as follows:

*(a) Except as provided by subsection (c), a Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard who because of the Reserve's earlier military service is entitled to retired or retainer pay, and who performs duty for which the Reserve is entitled to compensation, may elect to receive for that duty either—*

*(1) the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty that the Reserve is performing; or*

*(2) if the Reserve specifically waives those payments, the retired or retainer pay to which the Reserve is entitled because of the Reserve's earlier military service.*

  

*(b) Except as provided by subsection (c), a Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard who because of the Reserve's earlier military service is entitled to a pension or disability compensation, and who performs duty for which the Reserve is entitled to compensation, may elect to receive for that duty either—*

*(1) the pension or disability compensation to which the Reserve is entitled because of the Reserve's earlier military service; or*

(2) if the Reserve specifically waives those payments, the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty that the Reserve is performing.

  

*(c) Unless the payments because of a Reserve's earlier military service are greater than the compensation prescribed by subsection (a)(1) or (b)(2), as applicable,, a Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard who because of the Reserve's earlier military service is entitled to a pension, retired or retainer pay, or disability compensation, and who upon being ordered to active duty for a period of more than 30 days in time of war or national emergency is found physically qualified to perform that duty, ceases to be entitled to the payments because of the Reserve's earlier military service until the period of active duty ends. While on that active duty, the Reserve is entitled to the compensation prescribed by subsection (a)(1) or (b)(2), as applicable,. Other rights and benefits of the Reserve or the Reserve's dependents are unaffected by this subsection.*

*(d) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations under which a Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard may waive the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty the Reserve is performing under subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2).*

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–283, §621(a)(1), substituted in introductory provisions "subsection (c)" for "subsection (b)", "the Reserve's earlier military service" for "his earlier military service", "retired or retainer pay" for "a pension, retired or retainer pay, or disability compensation", and "the Reserve is entitled" for "he is entitled".

Subsec. (a)(1), (2). Pub. L. 116–283, §621(a)(2), added pars. (1) and (2) and struck out former pars. (1) and (2) which read as follows:

"(1) the payments to which he is entitled because of his earlier military service; or

"(2) if he specifically waives those payments, the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty that he is performing."

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–283, §621(b)(2), added subsec. (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (c).

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 116–283, §621(b)(1), (c), redesignated subsec. (b) as (c) and substituted "(a)(1) or (b)(2), as applicable," for "(a)(2)" in two places, "a Reserve's earlier military service are greater" for "his earlier military service are greater", "the Reserve's earlier military service" for "his earlier military service" in two places, "the Reserve is entitled" for "he is entitled", and "the Reserve or the Reserve's dependents" for "the member or his dependents".

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 116–283, §621(d), added subsec. (d).

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–337 renumbered section 684 of this title as this section.

**1975**—Subsecs. (a), (b). Pub. L. 93–586 inserted reference to Coast Guard.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VI, §621(e), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3676, provided that: "The amendments made by this section \[amending this section\] shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Jan. 1, 2021\]."

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.