### §1112. Authorization of Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response teams

#### (a) In general

The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, may develop Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response (referred to in this section as "VIPR") teams to augment the security of any mode of transportation at any location within the United States. In forming a VIPR team, the Secretary—

(1) may use any asset of the Department, including Federal air marshals, surface transportation security inspectors, canine detection teams, and advanced screening technology;

(2) may determine when a VIPR team shall be deployed, as well as the duration of the deployment;

(3) shall, prior to and during the deployment, consult with local security and law enforcement officials in the jurisdiction where the VIPR team is or will be deployed, to develop and agree upon the appropriate operational protocols and provide relevant information about the mission of the VIPR team, as appropriate;

(4) shall, prior to and during the deployment, consult with all transportation entities directly affected by the deployment of a VIPR team, as appropriate, including railroad carriers, air carriers, airport owners, over-the-road bus operators and terminal owners and operators, motor carriers, public transportation agencies, owners or operators of highways, port operators and facility owners, vessel owners and operators and pipeline operators; and

(5) shall require, as appropriate based on risk, in the case of a VIPR team deployed to an airport, that the VIPR team conduct operations—

(A) in the sterile area and any other areas to which only individuals issued security credentials have unescorted access; and

(B) in nonsterile areas.

#### (b) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section such sums as necessary, including funds to develop not more than 60 VIPR teams, for fiscal years 2016 through 2018.

(Pub. L. 110–53, title XIII, §1303, Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 392; Pub. L. 114–190, title III, §3601, July 15, 2016, 130 Stat. 664.)

#### Amendments

**2016**—Subsec. (a)(5). Pub. L. 114–190, §3601(1), added par. (5).

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 114–190, §3601(2), substituted "such sums as necessary, including funds to develop not more than 60 VIPR teams, for fiscal years 2016 through 2018" for "such sums as necessary for fiscal years 2007 through 2011".