### §224. Status of reserve cities under former statutes

The organization of reserve districts and Federal reserve cities shall not be construed as changing the present status of reserve cities except in so far as this chapter changes the amount of reserves that may be carried with approved reserve agents located therein.

([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, §2 (part), 38 Stat. 253](/statviewer.htm?volume=38&page=253); [Pub. L. 86–114, §3(b)(5), July 28, 1959, 73 Stat. 264](/statviewer.htm?volume=73&page=264).)

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning act [Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, 38 Stat. 251](/statviewer.htm?volume=38&page=251), as amended, known as the Federal Reserve Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under section 226 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of part of the thirteenth par. of section 2 of act Dec. 23, 1913. Some of the other provisions of the thirteenth par. are classified to section 281 of this title, and some were not included in the Code. For classification of other pars. of section 2 of this Act, see Codification note set out under section 222 of this title.

#### Amendments

**1959**—Pub. L. 86–114 struck out "and central reserve cities" after "reserve cities".

#### Effective Date of 1959 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 86–114 effective three years after July 28, 1959, see section 3(b) of Pub. L. 86–114, set out as a Central Reserve and Reserve Cities note under former section 141 of this title.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions relating to reserve cities and central reserve cities were contained in R.S. §§5191, 5192, and act [Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 378, §§1, 2, 24 Stat. 559](/statviewer.htm?volume=24&page=559), [560](/statviewer.htm?volume=24&page=560).