### §123. Relocation of utility facilities

(a) When a State shall pay for the cost of relocation of utility facilities necessitated by the construction of a project on any Federal-aid highway, Federal funds may be used to reimburse the State for such cost in the same proportion as Federal funds are expended on the project. Federal funds shall not be used to reimburse the State under this section when the payment to the utility violates the law of the State or violates a legal contract between the utility and the State. Such reimbursement shall be made only after evidence satisfactory to the Secretary shall have been presented to him substantiating the fact that the State has paid such cost from its own funds with respect to Federal-aid highway projects for which Federal funds are obligated subsequent to April 16, 1958, for work, including relocation of utility facilities.

(b) The term "utility", for the purposes of this section, shall include publicly, privately, and cooperatively owned utilities.

(c) The term "cost of relocation", for the purposes of this section, shall include the entire amount paid by such utility properly attributable to such relocation after deducting therefrom any increase in the value of the new facility and any salvage value derived from the old facility.

(Pub. L. 85–767, Aug. 27, 1958, 72 Stat. 900; Pub. L. 100–17, title I, §133(b)(8), Apr. 2, 1987, 101 Stat. 171; Pub. L. 112–141, div. A, title I, §1104(c)(3), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 427.)

#### Amendments

**2012**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 112–141 substituted "on any Federal-aid highway" for "on any Federal-aid system".

**1987**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 100–17 substituted "any Federal-aid system," for "the Federal-aid primary or secondary systems or on the Interstate System, including extensions thereof within urban areas,".

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 112–141 effective Oct. 1, 2012, see section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under section 101 of this title.

#### Study of Procurement Practices and Project Delivery

Pub. L. 105–178, title I, §1213(e), June 9, 1998, 112 Stat. 201, directed the Comptroller General to conduct a study to assess the impact that a utility company's failure to relocate its facilities in a timely manner has on the delivery and cost of Federal-aid highway and bridge projects, including an assessment of methods States use to mitigate such delays, and directed the Comptroller General to transmit to Congress a report on the results of the study with any appropriate recommendations not later than 1 year after June 9, 1998.