### §151. National electric vehicle charging and hydrogen, propane, and natural gas fueling corridors

(a) In General.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the FAST Act, the Secretary shall designate national electric vehicle charging and hydrogen, propane, and natural gas fueling corridors that identify the near- and long-term need for, and location of, electric vehicle charging infrastructure, hydrogen fueling infrastructure, propane fueling infrastructure, and natural gas fueling infrastructure at strategic locations along major national highways to improve the mobility of passenger and commercial vehicles that employ electric, hydrogen fuel cell, propane, and natural gas fueling technologies across the United States.

(b) Designation of Corridors.—In designating the corridors under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—

(1) solicit nominations from State and local officials for facilities to be included in the corridors;

(2) incorporate existing electric vehicle charging, hydrogen fueling, propane fueling, and natural gas fueling corridors designated by a State or group of States; and

(3) consider the demand for, and location of, existing electric vehicle charging stations, hydrogen fueling stations, propane fueling stations, and natural gas fueling infrastructure.

  

(c) Stakeholders.—In designating corridors under subsection (a), the Secretary shall involve, on a voluntary basis, stakeholders that include—

(1) the heads of other Federal agencies;

(2) State and local officials;

(3) representatives of—

(A) energy utilities;

(B) the electric, fuel cell electric, propane, and natural gas vehicle industries;

(C) the freight and shipping industry;

(D) clean technology firms;

(E) the hospitality industry;

(F) the restaurant industry;

(G) highway rest stop vendors; and

(H) industrial gas and hydrogen manufacturers; and

  

(4) such other stakeholders as the Secretary determines to be necessary.

  

(d) Redesignation.—Not later than 5 years after the date of establishment of the corridors under subsection (a), and every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary shall update and redesignate the corridors.

(e) Report.—During designation and redesignation of the corridors under this section, the Secretary shall issue a report that—

(1) identifies electric vehicle charging infrastructure, hydrogen fueling infrastructure, propane fueling infrastructure, and natural gas fueling infrastructure and standardization needs for electricity providers, industrial gas providers, natural gas providers, infrastructure providers, vehicle manufacturers, electricity purchasers, and natural gas purchasers; and

(2) establishes an aspirational goal of achieving strategic deployment of electric vehicle charging infrastructure, hydrogen fueling infrastructure, propane fueling infrastructure, and natural gas fueling infrastructure in those corridors by the end of fiscal year 2020.

(Added Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title I, §1413(a), Dec. 4, 2015, 129 Stat. 1417.)

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the FAST Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 114–94, which was approved Dec. 4, 2015.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 151, added Pub. L. 100–17, title I, §125(a), Apr. 2, 1987, 101 Stat. 166; amended Pub. L. 105–178, title I, §1212(a)(2)(A)(ii), title V, §5119(e), June 9, 1998, 112 Stat. 193, 452, related to a national bridge inspection program, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 112–141, div. A, title I, §1519(b)(1)(A), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 575, effective Oct. 1, 2012.

Another prior section 151, added Pub. L. 93–87, title II, §205(a), Aug. 13, 1973, 87 Stat. 284; amended Pub. L. 94–280, title II, §207, May 5, 1976, 90 Stat. 454; Pub. L. 95–599, title I, §127, Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2707; Pub. L. 96–470, title II, §209(c), Oct. 19, 1980, 94 Stat. 2245; Pub. L. 97–375, title I, §111(a), Dec. 21, 1982, 96 Stat. 1821, related to a pavement marking demonstration program, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 100–17, title I, §125(a), Apr. 2, 1987, 101 Stat. 166.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2015, see section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94, set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under section 5313 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.