### §11314. Authority to acquire and manage information technology

(a) In General.—The authority of the head of an executive agency to acquire information technology includes—

(1) acquiring information technology as authorized by law;

(2) making a contract that provides for multiagency acquisitions of information technology in accordance with guidance issued by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; and

(3) if the Director finds that it would be advantageous for the Federal Government to do so, making a multiagency contract for procurement of commercial products of information technology that requires each executive agency covered by the contract, when procuring those products, to procure the products under that contract or to justify an alternative procurement of the products.

  

(b) FTS 2000 Program.—The Administrator of General Services shall continue to manage the FTS 2000 program, and to coordinate the follow-on to that program, for and with the advice of the heads of executive agencies.

(Pub. L. 107–217, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1241; Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §836(g)(7)(B), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1874.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                            |
| ------------------ | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 11314              | 40:1424.             | Pub. L. 104–106, div. E, title LI, §5124, Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 684. |

In subsection (b), the words "Notwithstanding any other provision of this or any other law" are omitted as unnecessary.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 115–232 substituted "products" for "items" wherever appearing.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Jan. 1, 2020, subject to a savings provision, see section 836(h) of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as an Effective Date of 2018 Amendment; Savings Provision note under section 453b of Title 6, Domestic Security.