### §2277a–9. Insurance Fund

#### (a) Establishment

There is hereby established a Farm Credit Insurance Fund (hereinafter referred to in this section as the "Insurance Fund") for insuring the timely payment of principal and interest on insured obligations. The assets in the Fund shall be held by the Corporation for the uses and purposes of the Corporation.

#### (b) Amounts in Fund

The Corporation shall deposit in the Insurance Fund all premium payments received by the Corporation under this part.

#### (c) Uses of Fund

#### (1) Mandatory use

Beginning January 1, 1993, the Corporation shall expend amounts in the Insurance Fund to the extent necessary to insure the timely payment of interest and principal on insured obligations.

#### (2) Other mandatory uses

Beginning January 1, 1993, the Corporation shall use amounts in the Insurance Fund to ensure the retirement of eligible borrower stock at par value under section 2162 of this title.

#### (3) Permissive uses

The Corporation may expend amounts in the Insurance Fund to carry out section 2277a–10 of this title and to cover the operating costs of the Corporation.

#### (4) Corporate payment or refunds

The Corporation shall make all payments and refunds required to be made by the Corporation under this part from amounts in the Insurance Fund.

(Pub. L. 92–181, title V, §5.60, as added Pub. L. 100–233, title III, §302, Jan. 6, 1988, 101 Stat. 1616; amended Pub. L. 100–399, title III, §302(j)–(l), Aug. 17, 1988, 102 Stat. 994; Pub. L. 101–624, title XVIII, §1836(a), Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3833; Pub. L. 115–334, title V, §5411(38), Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 4683.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 115–334, §5411(38)(A), struck out par. (2) designation and heading before "The Corporation" and struck out par. (1) which provided for transfer of amounts in the revolving fund into the Farm Credit Insurance Fund, with exception for transactions before Jan. 6, 1988.

Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 115–334, §5411(38)(B), substituted "Insurance Fund to ensure" for "Insurance Fund to—

"(A) satisfy System institution defaults through the purchase of preferred stock or other payments as provided for in section 2278b–6(d)(3) of this title; and

"(B) ensure".

**1990**—Subsec. (c)(1), (2). Pub. L. 101–624 substituted "January 1, 1993" for "5 years after the date of the enactment of this part" in par. (1) and for "5 years after the date of enactment of this part" in par. (2).

**1988**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 100–399, §302(j), struck out "(in effect immediately before January 6, 1988)" after "section 2151 of this title".

Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 100–399, §302(k), substituted "The" for "Beginning 5 years after January 6, 1988, the".

Subsec. (c)(2)(B). Pub. L. 100–399, §302(l), amended subpar. (B) generally. Prior to amendment, subpar. (B) read as follows: "ensure the retirement of borrower stock at par value and participation certificates or other similar equities at face value as provided for under section 2162(c)(2) of this title."

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 100–399 effective as if enacted immediately after enactment of Pub. L. 100–233, which was approved Jan. 6, 1988, see section 1001(a) of Pub. L. 100–399, set out as a note under section 2002 of this title.