### §10903. Definitions

For purposes of this chapter—

(1) the term "eligible individual" means a candidate for the Child Development Associate credential whose income does not exceed the [1](#10903_1_target) 130 percent of the lower living standard income level,[2](#10903_2_target) by more than 50 percent;

(2) the term "lower living standard income level" means that income level (adjusted for regional, metropolitan, urban, and rural differences and family size) determined annually by the Secretary of Labor and based on the most recent lower living family budget issued by the Secretary of Labor;

(3) the term "Secretary" means the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and

(4) the term "State" means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau.

(Pub. L. 99–425, title VI, §604, Sept. 30, 1986, 100 Stat. 976; Pub. L. 101–501, title V, §502, Nov. 3, 1990, 104 Stat. 1256.)

#### Amendments

**1990**—Par. (1). Pub. L. 101–501, §502(1), substituted "130 percent of the lower living standard income level" for "poverty line, as defined in section 9902(2) of this title".

Pars. (2) to (4). Pub. L. 101–501, §502(2), (3), added par. (2) and redesignated former pars. (2) and (3) as (3) and (4), respectively.

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 101–501 effective Oct. 1, 1990, see section 1001(a) of Pub. L. 101–501, set out as a note under section 8621 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1986, see section 1001 of Pub. L. 99–425, set out as an Effective Date of 1986 Amendment note under section 8621 of this title.

[1 So in original. The word "the" probably should not appear.](#10903_1)

[2 So in original. The comma probably should not appear.](#10903_2)