### §410aa–2. Notice in Federal Register; appropriations; administration

When the Secretary determines that lands and interests therein have been acquired in an amount sufficient to constitute an administerable [1](#410aa-2_1_target) unit, he shall establish the park by publication of a notice to that effect in the Federal Register: *Provided*, That the park shall not be established until the Secretary receives commitments which he deems to be sufficient from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania that the appropriations made by acts 320 and 352 of 1974, and act 12A of 1975, of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, will continue to be available and obligated for development purposes within the park. The Secretary shall administer the property acquired for such park in accordance with sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 [2](#410aa-2_2_target) of this title, as amended and supplemented, and sections 461 to 467 [2](#410aa-2_2_target) of this title. In furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter, the Secretary is authorized to provide technical assistance to public and private nonprofit entities in qualifying for appropriate historical designation and for such grants, other financial assistance, and other forms of aid as are available under Federal, State, or local law for the protection, rehabilitation, or preservation of properties in the vicinity of the park which are historically related to the purposes of the park.

(Pub. L. 94–337, §3, July 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 797; Pub. L. 96–287, title III, §301(2), June 28, 1980, 94 Stat. 601.)

#### References in Text

Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, referred to in text, were repealed by Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272. For disposition of sections, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

Sections 461 to 467 of this title, referred to in text, were repealed by Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272. For disposition of sections, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

#### Amendments

**1980**—Pub. L. 96–287 authorized technical assistance to nonprofit entities in qualifying for appropriate historical designation and for any aid for protection, rehabilitation, or preservation of properties in the vicinity of the park which are historically related to the purposes of the park.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "administrable".](#410aa-2_1)

[2 See References in Text note below.](#410aa-2_2)