### §14043h. Definitions

In this part:

#### (1) Covered formula grant

The term "covered formula grant" means a grant under—

(A) part T of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg et seq.) (commonly referred to as the "STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program"); or

(B) section 14043g of this title (commonly referred to as the "Sexual Assault Services Program").

#### (2) Termination

#### (A) In general

The term "termination" means, when used with respect to parental rights, a complete and final termination of the parent's right to custody of, guardianship of, visitation with, access to, and inheritance from a child.

#### (B) Rule of construction

Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require a State, in order to receive an increase in the amount provided to the State under the covered formula grants under this part, to have in place a law that terminates any obligation of a person who fathered a child through rape to support the child.

(Pub. L. 114–22, title IV, §402, May 29, 2015, 129 Stat. 256.)

#### References in Text

The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, referred to in par. (1)(A), is Pub. L. 90–351, June 19, 1968, 82 Stat. 197. Part T of title I of the Act is classified generally to subchapter XII–H (§3796gg et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3711 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act and also as part of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015, and not as part of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 which enacted this chapter.

#### Short Title

For short title of this part as the "Rape Survivor Child Custody Act", see section 401 of Pub. L. 114–22, set out as a Short Title of 2015 Amendment note under section 13701 of this title.