### §2339b. Notification of Navy procurement production disruptions

(a) Requirement for Contractor To Provide Notice of Delays.—The Secretary of the Navy shall require prime contractors of any Navy procurement program funded under either the Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy account or the Other Procurement, Navy account to report within 15 calendar days any stop work order or other manufacturing disruption of 15 calendar days or more, by the prime contractor or any subcontractor, to the respective program manager and Navy technical authority.

(b) Quarterly Reports.—The Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees not later than 15 calendar days after the end of each quarter of a fiscal year a report listing all notifications made pursuant to subsection (a) during the preceding quarter.

(Added Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title VIII, §820(a), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1489.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1878(a), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4292, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 873 of this title, inserted before section 8752, and redesignated as section 8751 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.