### §2311. Assignment and delegation of procurement functions and responsibilities

(a) In General.—Except to the extent expressly prohibited by another provision of law, the head of an agency may delegate, subject to his direction, to any other officer or official of that agency, any power under this chapter.

(b) Procurements For or With Other Agencies.—Subject to subsection (a), to facilitate the procurement of property and services covered by this chapter by each agency named in section 2303 of this title for any other agency, and to facilitate joint procurement by those agencies—

(1) the head of an agency may delegate functions and assign responsibilities relating to procurement to any officer or employee within such agency;

(2) the heads of two or more agencies may by agreement delegate procurement functions and assign procurement responsibilities from one agency to another of those agencies or to an officer or civilian employee of another of those agencies; and

(3) the heads of two or more agencies may create joint or combined offices to exercise procurement functions and responsibilities.

  

(c) Approval of Terminations and Reductions of Joint Acquisition Programs.—(1) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations that prohibit each military department participating in a joint acquisition program approved by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment from terminating or substantially reducing its participation in such program without the approval of the Under Secretary.

(2) The regulations shall include the following provisions:

(A) A requirement that, before any such termination or substantial reduction in participation is approved, the proposed termination or reduction be reviewed by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council of the Department of Defense.

(B) A provision that authorizes the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment to require a military department whose participation in a joint acquisition program has been approved for termination or substantial reduction to continue to provide some or all of the funding necessary for the acquisition program to be continued in an efficient manner.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 132; Pub. L. 85–800, §11, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 967; Pub. L. 87–653, §1(g), Sept. 10, 1962, 76 Stat. 529; Pub. L. 90–378, §3, July 5, 1968, 82 Stat. 290; Pub. L. 97–86, title IX, §§907(c), 909(f), Dec. 1, 1981, 95 Stat. 1117, 1120; Pub. L. 98–369, div. B, title VII, §2726, July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 1194; Pub. L. 98–525, title XII, §1214, Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2592; Pub. L. 98–577, title V, §505, Oct. 30, 1984, 98 Stat. 3087; Pub. L. 103–355, title I, §1503(a)(1), Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3296; Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title X, §1048(b)(2), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1225; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, §902(49), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1548.)

#### Renumbering of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1807(d)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4157, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is renumbered section 3065 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                       | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                        |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 2311              | 41:156(a) (less 1st sentence).  41:156(b). | Feb. 19, 1948, ch. 65, §7(a) (less 1st sentence), (b), 62 Stat. 24. |

The words "in his discretion and" and "including the making of such determinations and decisions" are omitted as surplusage. The words "except the power to make determinations and decisions" are substituted for the words "Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section" and "The power of the agency head to make the determinations or decisions specified in paragraphs (12)–(16) of section 151(c) of this title and in section 154(a) of this title shall not be delegable".

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 2308 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 103–355, §1503(b)(1).

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (c)(1), (2)(B). Pub. L. 116–92 substituted "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment" for "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics".

**2001**—Subsec. (c)(1), (2)(B). Pub. L. 107–107 substituted "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics" for "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology".

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–355 substituted "Assignment and delegation of procurement functions and responsibilities" for "Delegation" as section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "Except as provided in section 2304(d)(2) of this title, the head of an agency may delegate, subject to his direction, to any other officer or official of that agency, any power under this chapter."

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–577 struck out "(a)" before "Except as provided in" and struck out subsec. (b) which related to delegation of authority by heads of procuring activities of agencies of certain functions.

Pub. L. 98–525 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

Pub. L. 98–369 inserted provision relating to the exception provided in section 2304(d)(2) of this title and struck out provision that the power to make determinations and decisions under cls. (11)–(16) of section 2304(a) of this title could not be delegated, but that the power to make a determination or decision under section 2304(a)(11) of this title could be delegated to any other officer of official of that agency who was responsible for procurement, and only for contracts requiring the expenditure of not more than $5,000,000.

**1981**—Pub. L. 97–86 struck out in first sentence cl. (1) designation and cl. (2) relating to authorizing of contracts in excess of three years under section 2306(g) of this title, and in second sentence substituted "$5,000,000" for "$100,000".

**1968**—Pub. L. 90–378 designated provisions after "the power to make determinations and decisions" as cl. (1) and added cl. (2).

**1962**—Pub. L. 87–653 substituted "delegated to any other officer" for "delegated only to a chief officer" and "$100,000" for "$25,000".

**1958**—Pub. L. 85–800 struck out ", or section 2307(a)" after "of section 2304(a)" in first sentence.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

For effective date and applicability of amendment by Pub. L. 103–355, see section 10001 of Pub. L. 103–355, set out as a note under section 2302 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 98–369 applicable with respect to any solicitation for bids or proposals issued after Mar. 31, 1985, see section 2751 of Pub. L. 98–369, set out as a note under section 2302 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1962 Amendment

For effective date of amendment by Pub. L. 87–653, see section 1(h) of Pub. L. 87–653, set out as a note under section 2304 of this title.