### §2316. Disclosure of identity of contractor

The Secretary of Defense may disclose the identity or location of a person awarded a contract by the Department of Defense to any individual, including a Member of Congress, only after the Secretary makes a public announcement identifying the contractor. When the identity of a contractor is to be made public, the Secretary shall announce publicly that the contract has been awarded and the identity of the contractor.

(Added Pub. L. 97–295, §1(26)(A), Oct. 12, 1982, 96 Stat. 1291.)

#### Renumbering of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1818(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4188, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is renumbered section 3344 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 2316              | 10:2304 (note).      | Oct. 7, 1970, Pub. L. 91–441, §507, 84 Stat. 913. |

The words "company, or corporation" are omitted as included in "person" because of section 1:1. The words "On and after the date of enactment of this Act" are omitted as executed. The word "contractor" is substituted for "person, company, or corporation to whom such contract has been awarded" and "person, company, or corporation to whom any defense contract has been awarded" to eliminate unnecessary words. The words "and the identity of the contractor" are substituted for "and to whom it was awarded" for clarity.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.