### §2302e. Contract authority for advanced development of initial or additional prototype units

(a) Authority.—A contract initially awarded from the competitive selection of a proposal resulting from a general solicitation referred to in section 2302(2)(B) of this title may contain a contract line item or contract option for—

(1) the provision of advanced component development, prototype, or initial production of technology developed under the contract; or

(2) the delivery of initial or additional items if the item or a prototype thereof is created as the result of work performed under the contract.

  

(b) Limitations.—

(1) Minimal amount.—A contract line item or contract option described in subsection (a)(2) shall require the delivery of the minimal amount of initial or additional items to allow for the timely competitive solicitation and award of a follow-on development or production contract for those items.

(2) Term.—A contract line item or contract option described in subsection (a) shall be for a term of not more than 2 years.

(3) Dollar value of work.—The dollar value of the work to be performed pursuant to a contract line item or contract option described in subsection (a) may not exceed $100,000,000, in fiscal year 2017 constant dollars.

(4) Applicability.—The authority provided in subsection (a) applies only to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of the Air Force.

(Added Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, §861(a)(1), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1493.)