### §2335. Prohibition on collection of political information

(a) Prohibition on Requiring Submission of Political Information.—The head of an agency may not require a contractor to submit political information related to the contractor or a subcontractor at any tier, or any partner, officer, director, or employee of the contractor or subcontractor—

(1) as part of a solicitation, request for bid, request for proposal, or any other form of communication designed to solicit offers in connection with the award of a contract for procurement of property or services; or

(2) during the course of contract performance as part of the process associated with modifying a contract or exercising a contract option.

  

(b) Scope.—The prohibition under this section applies to the procurement of commercial items, the procurement of commercial-off-the-shelf-items, and the non-commercial procurement of supplies, property, services, and manufactured items, irrespective of contract vehicle, including contracts, purchase orders, task or deliver orders under indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts, blanket purchase agreements, and basic ordering agreements.

(c) Rule of Construction.—Nothing in this section shall be construed as—

(1) waiving, superseding, restricting, or limiting the application of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.) or preventing Federal regulatory or law enforcement agencies from collecting or receiving information authorized by law; or

(2) precluding the Defense Contract Audit Agency from accessing and reviewing certain information, including political information, for the purpose of identifying unallowable costs and administering cost principles established pursuant to section 2324 of this title.

  

(d) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) Contractor.—The term "contractor" includes contractors, bidders, and offerors, and individuals and legal entities who would reasonably be expected to submit offers or bids for Federal Government contracts.

(2) Political information.—The term "political information" means information relating to political spending, including any payment consisting of a contribution, expenditure, independent expenditure, or disbursement for an electioneering communication that is made by the contractor, any of its partners, officers, directors or employees, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to a candidate or on behalf of a candidate for election for Federal office, to a political committee, to a political party, to a third party entity with the intention or reasonable expectation that it would use the payment to make independent expenditures or electioneering communications, or that is otherwise made with respect to any election for Federal office, party affiliation, and voting history.

(3) Other terms.—Each of the terms "contribution", "expenditure", "independent expenditure", "candidate", "election", "electioneering communication", and "Federal office" has the meaning given that term in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.).

(Added Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VIII, §823(a), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1502; amended Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title X, §1071(f)(17), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3511; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(a)(32), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1596.)

#### References in Text

The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, referred to in subsecs. (c)(1) and (d)(3), is Pub. L. 92–225, Feb. 7, 1972, 86 Stat. 3, which is classified principally to chapter 301 (§30101 et seq.) of Title 52, Voting and Elections. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsecs. (c)(1), (d)(3). Pub. L. 115–91 substituted "(52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.)" for "(2 U.S.C. 431 et seq.)".

**2014**—Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 113–291, §1071(f)(17)(A), redesignated last sentence as par. (3).

Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 113–291, §1071(f)(17)(B)(ii), (iii), substituted "that term" for "the term" and "Federal Election Campaign" for "Federal Campaign".

Pub. L. 113–291, §1071(f)(17)(B)(i), which directed amendment of par. (3) by inserting "Other terms.—" before "each of", was executed by making the insertion before "Each of" to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Pub. L. 113–291, §1071(f)(17)(A), redesignated last sentence of par. (2) as (3).