### §9074. Required assurances

#### (a) In general

To be eligible for financial assistance under this part, an air carrier or contractor shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary, or otherwise certify in such form and manner as the Secretary shall prescribe, that the air carrier or contractor shall—

(1) refrain from conducting involuntary furloughs or reducing pay rates and benefits until September 30, 2020;

(2) through September 30, 2021, ensure that neither the air carrier or contractor nor any affiliate of the air carrier or contractor may, in any transaction, purchase an equity security of the air carrier or contractor or the parent company of the air carrier or contractor that is listed on a national securities exchange;

(3) through September 30, 2021, ensure that the air carrier or contractor shall not pay dividends, or make other capital distributions, with respect to the common stock (or equivalent interest) of the air carrier or contractor; and

(4) meet the requirements of sections 9075 and 9076 of this title.

#### (b) Department of Transportation Authority to condition assistance on continuation of service

#### (1) In general

The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to require, to the extent reasonable and practicable, an air carrier provided financial assistance under this part to maintain scheduled air transportation service, as the Secretary of Transportation deems necessary, to ensure services to any point served by that carrier before March 1, 2020.

#### (2) Required considerations

When considering whether to exercise the authority provided by this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall take into consideration the air transportation needs of small and remote communities and the need to maintain well-functioning health care supply chains, including medical devices and supplies, and pharmaceutical supply chains.

#### (3) Sunset

The authority provided under this subsection shall terminate on March 1, 2022, and any requirements issued by the Secretary of Transportation under this subsection shall cease to apply after that date.

(Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title IV, §4114, Mar. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 499.)