### §3195. Continuing animal health and disease research programs

#### (a) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated such funds as Congress may determine necessary to support continuing animal health and disease research programs at eligible institutions, but not to exceed $25,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991 through 2012, and not in excess of such sums as may after September 29, 1977, be authorized by law for any subsequent fiscal year. Funds appropriated under this section shall be used: (1) to meet expenses of conducting animal health and disease research, publishing and disseminating the results of such research, and contributing to the retirement of employees subject to the provisions of section 331 of this title; (2) for administrative planning and direction; and (3) to purchase equipment and supplies necessary for conducting such research.

#### (b) Apportionment of appropriated funds

Funds appropriated under subsection (a) of this section for any fiscal year shall be apportioned as follows:

(1) Four per centum shall be retained by the Department of Agriculture for administration, program assistance to the eligible institutions, and program coordination.

(2) Forty-eight per centum shall be distributed among the several States in the proportion that the value of and income to producers from domestic livestock, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species in each State bears to the total value of and income to producers from domestic livestock, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species in all the States. The Secretary shall determine the total value of and income from domestic livestock, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species in all the States and the proportionate value of and income from domestic livestock, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species for each State, based on the most current inventory of all cattle, sheep, swine, horses, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species published by the Department of Agriculture.

(3) Forty-eight per centum shall be distributed among the several States in the proportion that the animal health research capacity of the eligible institutions in each State bears to the total animal health research capacity in all the States. The Secretary shall determine the animal health research capacity of the eligible institutions.

#### (c) Development of program for each State

In each State with one or more accredited colleges of veterinary medicine, the deans of the accredited college or colleges and the director of the State agricultural experiment station shall develop a comprehensive animal health and disease research program for the State based on the animal health research capacity of each eligible institution in the State, which shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval and shall be used for the allocation of funds available to the State under this section.

#### (d) Use of excess funds

When the amount available under this section for allotment to any State on the basis of domestic livestock, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species values and income exceeds the amount for which the eligible institution or institutions in the State are eligible on the basis of animal health research capacity, the excess may be used, at the discretion of the Secretary, for remodeling of facilities, construction of new facilities, or increase in staffing, proportionate to the need for added research capacity.

#### (e) Reallocation of funds to new colleges of veterinary medicine

Whenever a new college of veterinary medicine is established in a State and is accredited, the Secretary, after consultation with the dean of such college and the director of the State agricultural experiment station and, where applicable, deans of other accredited colleges in the State, shall provide for the reallocation of funds available to the State pursuant to subsection (b) of this section between the new college and other eligible institutions in the State, based on the animal health research capacity of each eligible institution.

#### (f) Joint establishment or support of accredited regional college of veterinary medicine

Whenever two or more States jointly establish an accredited regional college of veterinary medicine or jointly support an accredited college of veterinary medicine serving the States involved, the Secretary is authorized to make funds which are available to such States pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of this section available for such college in such amount that reflects the combined relative value of and income from domestic livestock, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species in the cooperating States, such amount to be adjusted, as necessary, pursuant to the provisions of subsections (c) and (e) of this section.

#### (g) Cooperation among eligible institutions

The Secretary, to the maximum extent practicable, shall encourage eligible institutions to cooperate in setting research priorities under this section through the conduct of regular regional and national meetings.

(Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, §1433, Sept. 29, 1977, 91 Stat. 1003; Pub. L. 97–98, title XIV, §1429, Dec. 22, 1981, 95 Stat. 1309; Pub. L. 99–198, title XIV, §1414(b), Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1549; Pub. L. 101–624, title XVI, §1601(b)(1), Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3703; Pub. L. 104–127, title VIII, §811, Apr. 4, 1996, 110 Stat. 1165; Pub. L. 105–185, title III, §301(a)(7), title VI, §606(d)(2), June 23, 1998, 112 Stat. 562, 604; Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, §7107, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 432; Pub. L. 110–234, title VII, §§7117, 7118, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1221, 1222; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title VII, §§7117, 7118, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1983.)

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by Pub. L. 110–234 were repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### Amendments

**2008**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110–246, §7117, substituted “2012” for “2007”.

Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 110–246, §7118, added subsec. (g).

**2002**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 107–171 substituted “2007” for “2002”.

**1998**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 105–185, §301(a)(7), substituted “2002” for “1997” in first sentence.

Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 105–185, §606(d)(2), struck out “with the advice, when available, of the Board” before period at end of second sentence.

**1996**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–127, §811(1), substituted “1997” for “1995” in first sentence.

Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 104–127, §811(2), substituted “domestic livestock, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species” for “domestic livestock and poultry” wherever appearing, and “horses, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species” for “horses, and poultry” in second sentence.

Subsecs. (d), (f). Pub. L. 104–127, §811(3), (4), substituted “domestic livestock, poultry, and commercial aquaculture species” for “domestic livestock and poultry”.

**1990**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 101–624 substituted “for each of the fiscal years 1991 through 1995,” for “annually for the period beginning October 1, 1981, and ending September 30, 1990,”.

**1985**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99–198 substituted “1990” for “1985”.

**1981**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 97–98 substituted “as Congress may determine necessary to support continuing animal health and disease research programs at eligible institutions, but not to exceed $25,000,000 annually for the period beginning October 1, 1981, and ending September 30, 1985, and not in excess of such sums as may after September 29, 1977, be authorized by law for any subsequent fiscal year” for “, not to exceed $25,000,000 annually, as Congress may determine necessary to support continuing animal health and disease research programs at eligible institutions”.

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8701 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 97–98 effective Dec. 22, 1981, see section 1801 of Pub. L. 97–98, set out as an Effective Date note under section 4301 of this title.