### §9033. Return to work reporting

Each State participating in an agreement under any of the preceding sections of this subtitle shall have in effect a method to address any circumstances in which, during any period during which such agreement is in effect, claimants of unemployment compensation refuse to return to work or to accept an offer of suitable work without good cause. Such method shall include the following:

(1) A reporting method for employers, such as through a phone line, email, or online portal, to notify the State agency when an individual refuses an offer of employment.

(2) A plain-language notice provided to such claimants about State return to work laws, rights to refuse to return to work or to refuse suitable work, including what constitutes suitable work, and a claimant's right to refuse work that poses a risk to the claimant's health or safety, and information on contesting the denial of a claim that has been denied due to a report by an employer that the claimant refused to return to work or refused suitable work.

(Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title II, §2117, as added Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title II, §251(a), Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 1961.)

#### References in Text

This subtitle, referred to in text, is subtitle A (§2101 et seq.) of title II of div. A of Pub. L. 116–136, Mar. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 313, known as the Relief for Workers Affected by Coronavirus Act. For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9001 of this title and Tables.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title II, §251(b), Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 1961, provided that: "The requirements imposed by this section \[enacting this section\] shall take effect 30 days from the date of enactment of this Act \[Dec. 27, 2020\]."