### §983. Inspection technology and training

#### (a) In general

The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Energy, and appropriate representatives of other Federal agencies, may provide technical assistance, equipment, and training to facilitate the implementation of supply chain security measures at ports designated under the Container Security Initiative.

#### (b) Acquisition and training

Unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Secretary may—

(1) lease, loan, provide, or otherwise assist in the deployment of nonintrusive inspection and radiation detection equipment at foreign land and sea ports under such terms and conditions as the Secretary prescribes, including nonreimbursable loans or the transfer of ownership of equipment; and

(2) provide training and technical assistance for domestic or foreign personnel responsible for operating or maintaining such equipment.

(Pub. L. 109–347, title II, §233(a), Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1917; Pub. L. 115–254, div. J, §1816(e)(1), Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3541.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–254, which directed the general amendment of "section 233 of the Security and Accountability for Every Port Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 983)", was executed by generally amending section 233(a) of the Security and Accountability for Every Port Act of 2006, which comprises this section, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. Prior to amendment, section read as follows:

"(1) In general.—The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Energy, and appropriate representatives of other Federal agencies, may provide technical assistance, equipment, and training to facilitate the implementation of supply chain security measures at ports designated under the Container Security Initiative.

"(2) Acquisition and training.—Unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Secretary may—

"(A) lease, loan, provide, or otherwise assist in the deployment of nonintrusive inspection and radiation detection equipment at foreign land and sea ports under such terms and conditions as the Secretary prescribes, including nonreimbursable loans or the transfer of ownership of equipment; and

"(B) provide training and technical assistance for domestic or foreign personnel responsible for operating or maintaining such equipment."