### §3049a. Special pay authority for science, technology, engineering, or mathematics positions

#### (a) Authority to set special rates of pay

Notwithstanding part III of title 5, the head of each element of the intelligence community may establish higher minimum rates of pay for 1 or more categories of positions in such element that require expertise in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM).

#### (b) Maximum special rate of pay

A minimum rate of pay established for a category of positions under subsection (a) may not exceed the maximum rate of basic pay (excluding any locality-based comparability payment under section 5304 of title 5 or similar provision of law) for the position in that category of positions without the authority of subsection (a) by more than 30 percent, and no rate may be established under this section in excess of the rate of basic pay payable for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5.

#### (c) Notification of removal from special rate of pay

If the head of an element of the intelligence community removes a category of positions from coverage under a rate of pay authorized by subsection (a) after that rate of pay takes effect—

(1) the head of such element shall provide notice of the loss of coverage of the special rate of pay to each individual in such category; and

(2) the loss of coverage will take effect on the first day of the first pay period after the date of the notice.

#### (d) Revision of special rates of pay

Subject to the limitations in this section, rates of pay established under this section by the head of the element of the intelligence community may be revised from time to time by the head of such element and the revisions have the force and effect of statute.

#### (e) Regulations

The head of each element of the intelligence community shall promulgate regulations to carry out this section with respect to such element, which shall, to the extent practicable, be comparable to the regulations promulgated to carry out section 5305 of title 5.

#### (f) Reports

#### (1) Requirement for reports

Not later than 90 days after May 5, 2017, the head of each element of the intelligence community shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on any rates of pay established for such element under this section.

#### (2) Contents

Each report required by paragraph (1) shall contain for each element of the intelligence community—

(A) a description of any rates of pay established under subsection (a); and

(B) the number of positions in such element that will be subject to such rates of pay.

(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title I, §113B, as added Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title III, §305(a), May 5, 2017, 131 Stat. 811.)