### §70034. Regulations

(a) In General.—In accordance with section 553 of title 5, the Secretary shall issue, and may from time to time amend or repeal, regulations necessary to implement subchapters A through C [1](#70034_1_target) and this subchapter.

(b) Consultation.—In the exercise of the regulatory authority under subchapters A through C [1](#70034_1_target) and this subchapter, the Secretary shall consult with, and receive and consider the views of all interested persons, including—

(1) interested Federal departments and agencies;

(2) officials of State and local governments;

(3) representatives of the maritime community;

(4) representatives of port and harbor authorities or associations;

(5) representatives of environmental groups;

(6) any other interested persons who are knowledgeable or experienced in dealing with problems involving vessel safety, port and waterways safety, and protection of the marine environment; and

(7) advisory committees consisting of all interested segments of the public when the establishment of such committees is considered necessary because the issues involved are highly complex or controversial.

(Added Pub. L. 115–282, title IV, §401(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4261.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Safety Zones for Permitted Marine Events

Pub. L. 114–120, title III, §305, Feb. 8, 2016, 130 Stat. 54, provided that: "Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Feb. 8, 2016\], the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall establish and implement a process to—

"(1) account for the number of safety zones established for permitted marine events;

"(2) differentiate whether the event sponsor who requested a permit for such an event is—

"(A) an individual;

"(B) an organization; or

"(C) a government entity; and

"(3) account for Coast Guard resources utilized to enforce safety zones established for permitted marine events, including for—

"(A) the number of Coast Guard or Coast Guard Auxiliary vessels used; and

"(B) the number of Coast Guard or Coast Guard Auxiliary patrol hours required."

[1 So in original. Probably should be "subchapters I through III".](#70034_1)