### §7656. Aircraft and equipment: civilian aviation schools

The Secretary of the Army, under regulations to be prescribed by him, may lend aircraft, aircraft parts, and aeronautical equipment and accessories that are required for instruction, training, and maintenance, to accredited civilian aviation schools at which personnel of the Department of the Army or the Department of the Air Force are pursuing a course of instruction and training under detail by competent orders.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 261, §4656; Pub. L. 97–295, §1(42), Oct. 12, 1982, 96 Stat. 1298; renumbered §7656, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(d), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1839.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*            |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| 4656              | 10:298b.             | Apr. 3, 1939, ch. 35, §4, 53 Stat. 556. |

The words "in his discretion and", "rules", "limitations", and "on hand and belonging to the Government, such articles as may appear to be" are omitted as surplusage. The words "Department of the Army or the Department of the Air Force" are substituted for the words "Military Establishment", since the authority is reciprocal.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7656 was renumbered section 8856 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 4656 of this title as this section.

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–295 struck out ", and at least one of which is designated by the Civil Aeronautics Authority for the training of Negro air pilots" after "competent orders".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.