### §3784. Technical data under contracts for commercial items: presumption of development exclusively at private expense

In the case of a challenge to a use or release restriction that is asserted with respect to technical data of a contractor or subcontractor under a contract for commercial products, the contracting officer shall presume that the contractor or subcontractor has justified the restriction on the basis that the item [1](#3784_1_target) was developed exclusively at private expense, whether or not the contractor or subcontractor submits a justification in response to the notice provided pursuant to section 3782(c) of this title. In such a case, the challenge to the use or release restriction may be sustained only if information provided by the Department of Defense demonstrates that the item [1](#3784_1_target) was not developed exclusively at private expense.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1833(g), (k), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4231, 4233.)

#### Codification

Prior to transfer of section 2321(f) of this title to this section, Pub. L. 115–232, §836(c)(8)(A)(ii), amended such section 2321(f) by substituting "commercial products" for "the item" in two places. Subsequently, Pub. L. 116–283, §1081(d)(4)(B)(ii), generally amended section 836(c)(8) of Pub. L. 115–232, and in so doing, omitted that substitution. As a result, this section reflects the text as it reads had that substitution not occurred.

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.

[1 See Codification note below.](#3784_1)