### §3781. Technical data: contractor justification for restrictions; review of restrictions

(a) Contracts Covered by Subchapter.—This subchapter applies to any contract for supplies or services entered into by the Department of Defense that includes provisions for the delivery of technical data.

(b) Contractor Justification for Restrictions.—A contract subject to this subchapter shall provide that a contractor under the contract and any subcontractor under the contract at any tier shall be prepared to furnish to the contracting officer a written justification for any use or release restriction (as defined in section 3786 of this title) asserted by the contractor or subcontractor.

(c) Review of Restrictions.—

(1) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that there is a thorough review of the appropriateness of any use or release restriction asserted with respect to technical data by a contractor or subcontractor at any tier under a contract subject to this subchapter.

(2) The review of an asserted use or release restriction under paragraph (1) shall be conducted before the end of the three-year period beginning on the later of—

(A) the date on which final payment is made on the contract under which the technical data is required to be delivered; or

(B) the date on which the technical data is delivered under the contract.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1833(g), (h), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4231.)

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.