### §703. Printing extra copies

Orders for printing copies in addition to the "usual number", otherwise than provided for by this section, shall be by simple, concurrent, or joint resolution. Either House may print extra copies to the amount of $1,200 by simple resolution; if the cost exceeds that sum, the printing shall be ordered by concurrent resolution, unless the resolution is self-appropriating, when it shall be by joint resolution. Resolutions, when presented to either House, shall be referred to the Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, who, in making their report, shall give the probable cost of the proposed printing upon the estimate of the Director of the Government Publishing Office; and extra copies may not be printed before the committee has reported. The printing of additional copies may be performed upon orders of the Joint Committee on Printing within a limit of $700 in cost in any one instance.

(Pub. L. 90–620, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1247; Pub. L. 104–186, title II, §223(2), Aug. 20, 1996, 110 Stat. 1751; Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, §1301(c)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., §133 (Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, §2, 28 Stat. 601; Mar. 1, 1907, ch. 2284, §1, 34 Stat. 1013; Apr. 19, 1949, ch. 72, 63 Stat. 48).

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–235 substituted "Director of the Government Publishing Office" for "Public Printer".

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–186 substituted "House Oversight" for "House Administration".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.