### §2417. Administrative and other costs

The Director of the Defense Logistics Agency may use, out of the amount appropriated for a fiscal year for operation and maintenance for the procurement technical assistance program authorized by this chapter—

(1) an amount not exceeding three percent of such amount to defray the expenses of administering the provisions of this chapter during such fiscal year; and

(2) an amount determined appropriate by the Director to assist eligible entities in payment of costs of eligible entities — [1](#2417_1_target)

(A) for meetings to discuss best practices for the improvement of the operations of procurement technical assistance centers; and

(B) for membership dues for any association of such centers created by eligible entities, training fees and associated travel for training to carry out the purposes of this chapter, and voluntary participation on any committees or board of such an association.

(Added Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title VIII, §814(a)(1)(B), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1596; amended Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §859(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1892.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2417 was renumbered section 2420 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, §859(a)(2)–(4), substituted "chapter—" for "chapter,", inserted par. (1) designation before "an amount", and added par. (2).

Pub. L. 115–232, §859(a)(1), inserted "and other" after "Administrative" in section catchline.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title VIII, §814(b), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1597, provided that: "Section 2417 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to fiscal year 1991 and each fiscal year thereafter."

[1 So in original.](#2417_1)