### §430. Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities Executive Agent

(a) Designation.—The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security shall designate a civilian employee of the Department or a member of the armed forces to serve as the Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities Executive Agent.

(b) Duties.—The Executive Agent designated under subsection (a) shall—

(1) report directly to the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence;[1](#430_1_target)

(2) work with the combatant commands, military departments, and the intelligence community (as defined in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)) to—

(A) develop methods to increase warfighter effectiveness through the exploitation of national capabilities; and

(B) promote cross-domain integration of such capabilities into military operations, training, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance activities.

(Added Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XVI, §1621(a), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3631; amended Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVI, §1621(e)(1)(A)(viii), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1733.)

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–92 substituted "Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security" for "Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence".

#### Change of Name

Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence redesignated and references deemed to refer to Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, see section 1621(a) of Pub. L. 116–92, set out as a note under section 137 of this title.

[1 See Change of Name note below.](#430_1)