### §3851a. Forest Service participation in ACES Program

#### (a) In general

The Secretary, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, may use funds derived from conservation-related programs executed on National Forest System land to utilize the Agriculture Conservation Experienced Services Program established pursuant to section 3851 of this title to provide technical services for conservation-related programs and authorities carried out by the Secretary on National Forest System land.

#### (b) Termination of effectiveness

The authority provided to the Secretary to carry out this section terminates effective October 1, 2023.[1](#3851a_1_target)

(Pub. L. 113–79, title VIII, §8302, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 923; Pub. L. 115–334, title VIII, §8622, Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 4853.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agricultural Act of 2014, and not as part of title XII of Pub. L. 99–198 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–334 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Extension of Forest Service Participation in Aces Program

Pub. L. 118–83, div. B, title I, §106, Sept. 26, 2024, 138 Stat. 1535, provided that: "Section 8302(b) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 3851a(b)) shall be applied by substituting '1 day after December 20, 2024' for 'October 1, 2023'."

#### Definition of "Secretary"

"Secretary" as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see section 9001 of Title 7, Agriculture.

[1 See Extension of Forest Service Participation in Aces Program note below.](#3851a_1)