### §252.[1](#251_1_target) Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan

(a) Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan.—

(1) In general.—The Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense shall, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), maintain a plan to be known as the "Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan".

(2) Elements.—The plan required by paragraph (1) shall—

(A) describe specific actions to be taken, including interim milestones with a detailed description of the subordinate activities required, and estimate the costs associated with—

(i) correcting the financial management deficiencies that impair the ability of the Department of Defense to prepare timely, reliable, and complete financial management information;

(ii) ensuring the financial statements of the Department of Defense go under full financial statement audit, and that the Department leadership makes every effort to reach an unmodified opinion as soon as possible;

(iii) [2](#252_2_target) ensuring the audit of the financial statements of the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 occurs by not later than March 31, 2019.

(iii) [2](#252_2_target) achieving an unqualified audit opinion for each major element of the statement of budgetary resources of the Department of Defense; and

(iv) addressing the existence and completeness of each major category of Department of Defense assets; and

  

(B) systematically tie the actions described under subparagraph (A) to business process and control improvements and business systems modernization efforts described in section 2222 of this title.

  

(b) Report and Briefing Requirements.—

(1) Annual report.—

(A) In general.—Not later than June 30, 2019, and annually thereafter, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the status of the implementation by the Department of Defense of the Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan under subsection (a).

(B) Elements.—Each report under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:

(i) An analysis of the consolidated corrective action plan management summary prepared pursuant to section 253a [3](#252_3_target) of this title.

(ii) Current Department of Defense-wide information on the status of corrective actions plans related to critical capabilities and material weaknesses, including the standard data elements recommended in the implementation guide for Office of Management and Budget Circular A–123, for the armed forces, military departments, and Defense Agencies.

(iii) A current description of the work undertaken and planned to be undertaken by the Department of Defense, and the military departments, Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the Department, to test and verify transaction data pertinent to obtaining an unqualified audit of their financial statements, including from feeder systems.

(iv) A current projected timeline of the Department in connection with the audit of the full financial statements of the Department, to be submitted to Congress annually not later than six months after the submittal to Congress of the budget of the President for a fiscal year under section 1105 of title 31, including the following:

(I) The date on which the Department projects the beginning of an audit of the full financial statements of the Department, and the military departments, Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the Department, for a fiscal year.

(II) The date on which the Department projects the completions of audits of the full financial statements of the Department, and the military departments, Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the Department, for a fiscal year.

(III) The dates on which the Department estimates it will obtain an unqualified audit opinion on the full financial statements of the Department, the military departments, the Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the Department for a fiscal year.

  

(v) A current estimate of the anticipated annual costs of maintaining an unqualified audit opinion on the full financial statements of the Department, the military departments, the Defense Agencies, and other organizations and elements of the Department for a fiscal year after an unqualified audit opinion on such full financial statements for a fiscal year is first obtained.

(vi) A certification of the results of the audit of the financial statements of the Department performed for the preceding fiscal year, and a statement summarizing, based on such results, the current condition of the financial statements of the Department.

  

(2) Semiannual briefings.—Not later than January 31 and June 30 each year, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and the comptrollers of the military departments shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees on the status of the corrective action plan.

(3) Critical capabilities defined.—In this subsection, the term "critical capabilities" means the critical capabilities described in the Department of Defense report titled "Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness (FIAR) Plan Status Report" and dated May 2016.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1002(c)(1)—(3), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1538.)

#### Codification

Subsec. (a) of this section, as added by Pub. L. 115–91, is based on text of subsec. (a) of section 1003 of Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title X, Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2439, which was formerly set out as a note under section 2222 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1002(c)(4), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1540.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(3)(A), which directed substitution of "Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan" for "Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness Plan" in heading, was executed by making the substitution for "Financial Improvement Audit Readiness Plan" to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(3)(B)(i), substituted "Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan" for "Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness Plan".

Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(2)(A), struck out "develop and" before "maintain".

Subsec. (a)(2)(A). Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(3)(B)(ii)(I)(aa), in introductory provisions, substituted "describe specific actions to be taken, including interim milestones with a detailed description of the subordinate activities required, and estimate the costs associated with" for "describe specific actions to be taken and the costs associated with".

Subsec. (a)(2)(A)(ii). Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(3)(B)(ii)(I)(bb), substituted "go under full financial statement audit, and that the Department leadership makes every effort to reach an unmodified opinion as soon as possible;" for "are validated as ready for audit by not later than September 30, 2017, and the statement of budgetary resources of the Department of Defense is validated as ready for audit by not later than September 30, 2014; and".

Subsec. (a)(2)(A)(iii), (iv). Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(3)(B)(ii)(I)(cc), added cl. (iii), related to unqualified audit opinion, and cl. (iv).

Subsec. (a)(2)(B). Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(3)(B)(ii)(II), inserted "business" before "process and control", struck out "the business enterprise architecture and transition plan required by" before "section 2222" and substituted period for semicolon at end.

Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(2)(B), substituted "of this title" for "of title 10, United States Code".

Subsec. (a)(2)(C), (D). Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(3)(B)(ii)(III), struck out subpars. (C) and (D) which read as follows:

"(C) prioritize—

"(i) improving the budgetary information of the Department of Defense, in order to achieve an unqualified audit opinion on the Department's statements of budgetary resources; and

"(ii) as a secondary goal, improving the accuracy and reliability of management information on the Department's mission-critical assets (military and general equipment, real property, inventory, and operating materials and supplies) and validating its accuracy through existence and completeness audits; and

"(D) include interim goals, including—

"(i) the objective of ensuring that the financial statement of each of the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Air Force, and the Defense Logistics Agency is validated as ready for audit: and

"(ii) a schedule setting forth milestones for elements of the military departments and financial statements of the military departments to be made ready for audit as part of the progress required to meet the objectives established pursuant to clause (i) of this subparagraph and clause (ii) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph."

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 115–91, §1002(c)(3)(C), added subsec. (b).

[1 Another section 252 is set out in chapter 13 of this title.](#252_1)

[2 So in original. Two cls. (iii) have been enacted.](#252_2)

[3 So in original. Probably should be "section 253".](#252_3)