### §2232. Construction of projects by non-Federal interests

#### (a) Authority

In addition to projects undertaken pursuant to sections 201 and 202 of this title, any non-Federal interest is authorized to undertake navigational improvements in harbors or inland harbors of the United States, subject to obtaining any permits required pursuant to Federal and State laws in advance of the actual construction of such improvements.

#### (b) Studies and engineering

When requested by an appropriate non-Federal interest the Secretary is authorized to undertake all necessary studies and engineering for any construction to be undertaken under the terms of subsection (a) of this section, and provide technical assistance in obtaining all necessary permits, if the non-Federal interest contracts with the Secretary to furnish the United States funds for such studies and engineering during the period that they are conducted.

#### (c) Completion of studies

The Secretary is authorized to complete and transmit to the appropriate non-Federal interest any study for improvements to harbors or inland harbors of the United States which were initiated prior to November 17, 1986, or, upon the request of such non-Federal interest, to terminate such study and transmit such partially completed study to the non-Federal interest. The Secretary is further authorized to complete and transmit to the appropriate non-Federal interest any study for improvement to harbors or inland harbors of the United States that is initiated pursuant to section 577 of this title or, upon request of such non-Federal interest, to terminate such study and transmit such partially completed study to the non-Federal interest. Studies under this subsection shall be completed without regard to the requirements of subsection (b) of this section.

#### (d) Authority to carry out improvement

Any non-Federal interest which has requested and received from the Secretary pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) of this section, the completed study and engineering for an improvement to a harbor or an inland harbor, or separable element thereof, for the purpose of constructing such improvement and for which improvement a final environmental impact statement has been filed, shall be authorized to carry out the terms of the plan for such improvement. Any plan of improvement proposed to be implemented in accordance with this subsection shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements for obtaining the appropriate permits required under the Secretary's authority and such permits shall be granted subject to the non-Federal interest's acceptance of the terms and conditions of such permits: Provided, That the Secretary determines that the applicable regulatory criteria and procedures have been satisfied. The Secretary shall monitor any project for which permits are granted under this subsection in order to ensure that such project is constructed (and, in those cases where such activities will not be the responsibility of the Secretary, operated and maintained) in accordance with the terms and conditions of such permits.

#### (e) Reimbursement

#### (1) General rule

Subject to the enactment of appropriation Acts, the Secretary is authorized to reimburse any non-Federal interest an amount equal to the estimate of Federal share, without interest, of the cost of any authorized harbor or inland harbor improvement, or separable element thereof, including any small navigation project approved pursuant to section 577 of this title, constructed under the terms of this section if—

(A) after authorization of the project (or, in the case of a small navigation project, after completion of a favorable project report by the Corps of Engineers) and before initiation of construction of the project or separable element—

(i) the Secretary approves the plans of construction of such project by such non-Federal interest, and

(ii) such non-Federal interest enters into an agreement to pay the non-Federal share, if any, of the cost of operation and maintenance of such project; and

  

(B) the Secretary finds before approval of the plans of construction of the project that the project, or separable element, is economically justified and environmentally acceptable.

#### (2) Matters to be considered in reviewing plans

In reviewing such plans, the Secretary shall consider budgetary and programmatic priorities, potential impacts on the cost of dredging projects nationwide, and other factors that the Secretary deems appropriate.

#### (3) Monitoring

The Secretary shall regularly monitor and audit any project for a harbor or inland harbor constructed under this subsection by a non-Federal interest in order to ensure that such construction is in compliance with the plans approved by the Secretary, and that costs are reasonable. No reimbursement shall be made unless and until the Secretary has certified that the work for which reimbursement is requested has been performed in accordance with applicable permits and the approved plans.

#### (f) Operation and maintenance

Whenever a non-Federal interest constructs improvements to any harbor or inland harbor, the Secretary shall be responsible for maintenance in accordance with section 2211(b) of this title if—

(1) the Secretary determines, before construction, that the improvements, or separable elements thereof, are economically justified, environmentally acceptable, and consistent with the purposes of this subchapter;

(2) the Secretary certifies that the project is constructed in accordance with applicable permits and the appropriate engineering and design standards; and

(3) the Secretary does not find that the project, or separable element thereof, is no longer economically justified or environmentally acceptable.

#### (g) Demonstration of non-Federal interests acting as agent of Secretary

For the purpose of demonstrating the potential advantages and efficiencies of non-Federal management of projects, the Secretary may approve as many as two proposals pursuant to which the non-Federal interests will undertake part or all of a harbor project authorized by Congress as the agent of the Secretary by utilizing its own personnel or by procuring outside services, so long as the cost of doing so will not exceed the cost of the Secretary undertaking the project.

(Pub. L. 99–662, title II, §204, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4099; Pub. L. 101–640, title III, §303, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4634.)

#### References in Text

Sections 201 and 202 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), are sections 201 and 202 of title II of Pub. L. 99–662, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4089, 4091, which are not classified to the Code.

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (f)(1), was in the original “this title” which, in addition to this subchapter, consisted of sections 201 and 202 of Pub. L. 99–662, which are not classified to the Code.

#### Amendments

**1990**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 101–640, §303(a), inserted after first sentence “The Secretary is further authorized to complete and transmit to the appropriate non-Federal interest any study for improvement to harbors or inland harbors of the United States that is initiated pursuant to section 577 of this title or, upon request of such non-Federal interest, to terminate such study and transmit such partially completed study to the non-Federal interest.”

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 101–640, §303(b)(1), redesignated subsec. (e), relating to operation and maintenance, as (f).

Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 101–640, §303(b)(2), (3), in introductory provisions inserted “including any small navigation project approved pursuant to section 577 of this title,” after “or separable element thereof,” and in subpar. (A) inserted “(or, in the case of a small navigation project, after completion of a favorable project report by the Corps of Engineers)” after “authorization of the project”.

Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 101–640, §303(b)(1), redesignated subsec. (e), relating to operation and maintenance, as (f). Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).

Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 101–640, §303(b)(1), redesignated subsec. (f) as (g).

#### Demonstration of Construction of Federal Project by Non-Federal Interests

Pub. L. 101–640, title IV, §404, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4646, provided that:

“(a) In General.—For purposes of demonstrating the safety benefits and economic efficiencies which would accrue as a consequence of non-Federal management of harbor improvement projects, the Secretary shall enter into agreements with 2 non-Federal interests pursuant to which the non-Federal interests will undertake part or all of a harbor project authorized by law, by utilizing their own personnel or by procuring outside services, if the cost of doing so will not exceed the cost of the Secretary undertaking the project. If proposals for such agreements meet the criteria of section 204 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 \[33 U.S.C. 2232\], the agreements shall be entered into not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Nov. 28, 1990\].

“(b) Limitation.—At least 1 project carried out pursuant to this section shall pertain to improvements to a major ship channel which carries a substantial volume of both passenger and cargo traffic.

“(c) Report.—The Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report regarding the safety benefits and economic efficiencies accrued from entering into agreements with non-Federal interests under this section.”