### §2401d. Benefit information to agricultural commodity producers

#### (a) In general

The Secretary shall provide full information to agricultural commodity producers about the benefit allowances, training, and other employment services available under this subchapter and about the petition and application procedures, and the appropriate filing dates, for such allowances, training, and services. The Secretary shall provide whatever assistance is necessary to enable groups to prepare petitions or applications for program benefits under this subchapter.

#### (b) Notice of benefits

#### (1) In general

The Secretary shall mail written notice of the benefits available under this part to each agricultural commodity producer that the Secretary has reason to believe is covered by a certification made under this part.

#### (2) Other notice

The Secretary shall publish notice of the benefits available under this part to agricultural commodity producers that are covered by each certification made under this part in newspapers of general circulation in the areas in which such producers reside.

#### (3) Other Federal assistance

The Secretary shall also provide information concerning procedures for applying for and receiving all other Federal assistance and services available to workers facing economic distress.

(Pub. L. 93–618, title II, §295, as added Pub. L. 107–210, div. A, title I, §141(a), Aug. 6, 2002, 116 Stat. 949.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination Date

Except as otherwise provided, assistance may not be provided under this section after June 30, 2021, see section 285 of Pub. L. 93–618, set out as a note preceding section 2271 of this title.