### §950bb–2. Innovative Broadband Advancement Program

#### (a) In general

The Secretary shall establish a program to be known as the "Innovative Broadband Advancement Program", under which the Secretary may provide a grant, a loan, or both to an eligible entity for the purpose of demonstrating innovative broadband technologies or methods of broadband deployment that significantly decrease the cost of broadband deployment, and provide substantially faster broadband speeds than are available, in a rural area.

#### (b) Rural area

In this section, the term "rural area" has the meaning provided in section 950bb(b)(3) of this title.

#### (c) Eligibility

To be eligible to obtain assistance under this section for a project, an entity shall—

(1) submit to the Secretary an application—

(A) that describes a project designed to decrease the cost of broadband deployment, and substantially increase broadband speed to not less than the maximum [1](#950bb-2_1_target) broadband buildout requirements established under section 950bb(e)(4) of this title, in a rural area to be served by the project; and

(B) at such time, in such manner, and containing such other information as the Secretary may require;

  

(2) demonstrate that the entity is able to carry out the project; and

(3) agree to complete the project build-out within 5 years after the date the assistance is first provided for the project.

#### (d) Prioritization

In awarding assistance under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to proposals for projects that—

(1) involve partnerships between or among multiple entities;

(2) would provide broadband service to the greatest number of rural entities at or above the broadband requirements referred to in subsection (c)(1)(A); and

(3) the Secretary determines could be replicated in rural areas described in paragraph (2).

#### (e) Authorization of appropriations

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.

(May 20, 1936, ch. 432, title VI, §603, as added Pub. L. 113–79, title VI, §6105, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 856; amended Pub. L. 115–334, title VI, §6203, Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 4736.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–334, §6203(1), substituted "Innovative Broadband Advancement" for "Rural Gigabit Network Pilot" in section catchline.

Subsecs. (a) to (d). Pub. L. 115–334, §6203(4), added subsecs. (a) to (d) and struck out former subsecs. (a) to (c) which defined "ultra-high speed service", established the Rural Gigabit Network Pilot Program, and set out eligibility requirements for participation in Program, respectively. Former subsec. (d) redesignated (e).

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 115–334, §6203(2), (3), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e) and substituted "2019 through 2023" for "2014 through 2018".

[1 So in original. Probably should be "minimum".](#950bb-2_1)