### §3225. Discussion of risk in cost estimates

The Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, and the Secretary of the military department concerned or the head of the Defense Agency concerned (as applicable), shall each—

(1) issue guidance requiring a discussion of risk, the potential impacts of risk on program costs, and approaches to mitigate risk in cost estimates for major defense acquisition programs and major subprograms;

(2) ensure that cost estimates are developed, to the extent practicable, based on historical actual cost information that is based on demonstrated contractor and Government performance and that such estimates provide a high degree of confidence that the program or subprogram can be completed without the need for significant adjustment to program budgets; and

(3) include the information required in the guidance under paragraph (1)—

(A) in any decision documentation approving a cost estimate within the baseline description or any other cost estimate for use at any event specified in section 3221(b)(6) of this title; and

(B) in the next Selected Acquisition Report pursuant to sections 4351 through 4358 of this title in the case of a major defense acquisition program or major subprogram, or the next quarterly report pursuant to section 2445c of this title in the case of a major automated information system program.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1812(a), (f), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4174, 4176.)

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.