### §290ee–2. Building communities of recovery

#### (a) Definition

In this section, the term "recovery community organization" means an independent nonprofit organization that—

(1) mobilizes resources within and outside of the recovery community, which may include through a peer support network, to increase the prevalence and quality of long-term recovery from substance use disorders; and

(2) is wholly or principally governed by people in recovery for substance use disorders who reflect the community served.

#### (b) Grants authorized

The Secretary shall award grants to recovery community organizations to enable such organizations to develop, expand, and enhance recovery services.

#### (c) Federal share

The Federal share of the costs of a program funded by a grant under this section may not exceed 85 percent.

#### (d) Use of funds

Grants awarded under subsection (b)—

(1) shall be used to develop, expand, and enhance community and statewide recovery support services; and

(2) may be used to—

(A) build connections between recovery networks, including between recovery community organizations and peer support networks, and with other recovery support services, including—

(i) behavioral health providers;

(ii) primary care providers and physicians;

(iii) educational and vocational schools;

(iv) employers;

(v) housing services;

(vi) child welfare agencies; and

(vii) other recovery support services that facilitate recovery from substance use disorders, including non-clinical community services;

  

(B) reduce stigma associated with substance use disorders; and

(C) conduct outreach on issues relating to substance use disorders and recovery, including—

(i) identifying the signs of substance use disorder;

(ii) the resources available to individuals with substance use disorder and to families of an individual with a substance use disorder, including programs that mentor and provide support services to children;

(iii) the resources available to help support individuals in recovery; and

(iv) related medical outcomes of substance use disorders, the potential of acquiring an infection commonly associated with illicit drug use, and neonatal abstinence syndrome among infants exposed to opioids during pregnancy.

#### (e) Special consideration

In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall give special consideration to the unique needs of rural areas, including areas with an age-adjusted rate of drug overdose deaths that is above the national average and areas with a shortage of prevention and treatment services.

#### (f) Authorization of appropriations

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, §547, as added Pub. L. 114–198, title III, §302, July 22, 2016, 130 Stat. 719; amended Pub. L. 115–271, title VII, §7151, Oct. 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 4057.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 290ee–2, act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, §547, formerly Pub. L. 92–255, title IV, §407, Mar. 21, 1972, 86 Stat. 78, as amended Pub. L. 94–237, §6(a), Mar. 19, 1976, 90 Stat. 244; Pub. L. 94–581, title I, §111(c)(2), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2852; renumbered §526 of act July 1, 1944, Apr. 26, 1983. Pub. L. 98–24, §2(b)(16)(B), 97 Stat. 182; renumbered §547, July 22, 1987, Pub. L. 100–77, title VI, §611(2), 101 Stat. 516, which related to admission of drug abusers to private and public hospitals, was omitted in the general revision of this part by Pub. L. 102–321.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–271 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section authorized the Secretary to award grants to recovery community organizations to enable such organizations to develop, expand, and enhance recovery services, set the Federal share of program costs at no more than 50 percent, and appropriated $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021.