### §290ee–5. National recovery housing best practices

#### (a) Best practices for operating recovery housing

#### (1) In general

The Secretary, in consultation with the individuals and entities specified in paragraph (2), shall identify or facilitate the development of best practices, which may include model laws for implementing suggested minimum standards, for operating recovery housing.

#### (2) Consultation

In carrying out the activities described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with, as appropriate—

(A) relevant divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services, including the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the Office of Inspector General, the Indian Health Service, and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services;

(B) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;

(C) directors or commissioners, as applicable, of State health departments, tribal health departments, State Medicaid programs, and State insurance agencies;

(D) representatives of health insurance issuers;

(E) national accrediting entities and reputable providers of, and analysts of, recovery housing services, including Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribally designated housing entities that provide recovery housing services, as applicable;

(F) individuals with a history of substance use disorder; and

(G) other stakeholders identified by the Secretary.

#### (b) Identification of fraudulent recovery housing operators

#### (1) In general

The Secretary, in consultation with the individuals and entities described in paragraph (2), shall identify or facilitate the development of common indicators that could be used to identify potentially fraudulent recovery housing operators.

#### (2) Consultation

In carrying out the activities described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with, as appropriate, the individuals and entities specified in subsection (a)(2) and the Attorney General of the United States.

#### (3) Requirements

#### (A) Practices for identification and reporting

In carrying out the activities described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider how law enforcement, public and private payers, and the public can best identify and report fraudulent recovery housing operators.

#### (B) Factors to be considered

In carrying out the activities described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall identify or develop indicators, which may include indicators related to—

(i) unusual billing practices;

(ii) average lengths of stays;

(iii) excessive levels of drug testing (in terms of cost or frequency); and

(iv) unusually high levels of recidivism.

#### (c) Dissemination

The Secretary shall, as appropriate, disseminate the best practices identified or developed under subsection (a) and the common indicators identified or developed under subsection (b) to—

(1) State agencies, which may include the provision of technical assistance to State agencies seeking to adopt or implement such best practices;

(2) Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribally designated housing entities;

(3) the Attorney General of the United States;

(4) the Secretary of Labor;

(5) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;

(6) State and local law enforcement agencies;

(7) health insurance issuers;

(8) recovery housing entities; and

(9) the public.

#### (d) Requirements

In carrying out the activities described in subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary, in consultation with appropriate individuals and entities described in subsections (a)(2) and (b)(2), shall consider how recovery housing is able to support recovery and prevent relapse, recidivism, or overdose (including overdose death), including by improving access and adherence to treatment, including medication-assisted treatment.

#### (e) Rule of construction

Nothing in this section shall be construed to provide the Secretary with the authority to require States to adhere to minimum standards in the State oversight of recovery housing.

#### (f) Definitions

In this section:

(1) The term "recovery housing" means a shared living environment free from alcohol and illicit drug use and centered on peer support and connection to services that promote sustained recovery from substance use disorders.

(2) The terms "Indian tribe" and "tribal organization" have the meanings given those terms in section 5304 of title 25.

(3) The term "tribally designated housing entity" has the meaning given that term in section 4103 of title 25.

#### (g) Authorization of appropriations

To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2019 through 2021.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, §550, as added Pub. L. 115–271, title VII, §7031, Oct. 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 4014.)

#### Codification

Another section 550 of act July 1, 1944, is classified to section 290ee–10 of this title.