### §18351. Continuation of the International Space Station

#### (a) Policy of the United States

It shall be the policy of the United States, in consultation with its international partners in the ISS program, to support full and complete utilization of the ISS through at least 2024.

#### (b) NASA action

In furtherance of the policy set forth in subsection (a), NASA shall—

(1) pursue international, commercial, and intragovernmental means to maximize ISS logistics supply, maintenance, and operational capabilities, reduce risks to ISS systems sustainability, and offset and minimize United States operations costs relating to the ISS;

(2) utilize, to the extent practicable, the ISS for the development of capabilities and technologies needed for the future of human space exploration beyond low-Earth orbit; and

(3) utilize, if practical and cost effective, the ISS for Science Mission Directorate missions in low-Earth orbit.

(Pub. L. 111–267, title V, §501, Oct. 11, 2010, 124 Stat. 2822; Pub. L. 114–90, title I, §114(b)(1), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 715; Pub. L. 115–10, title III, §301(c), Mar. 21, 2017, 131 Stat. 23.)

#### Amendments

**2017**—Pub. L. 115–10 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows:

"(a) Policy of the United States.—It shall be the policy of the United States, in consultation with its international partners in the ISS program, to support full and complete utilization of the ISS through at least 2024.

"(b) NASA Actions.—In furtherance of the policy set forth in subsection (a), NASA shall pursue international, commercial, and intragovernmental means to maximize ISS logistics supply, maintenance, and operational capabilities, reduce risks to ISS systems sustainability, and offset and minimize United States operations costs relating to the ISS."

**2015**—Pub. L. 114–90, §114(b)(1)(A), struck out "through 2020" after "Station" in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 114–90, §114(b)(1)(B), substituted "through at least 2024" for "through at least 2020".