### §682. Income of an estate or trust in case of divorce, etc.

#### (a) Inclusion in gross income of wife

There shall be included in the gross income of a wife who is divorced or legally separated under a decree of divorce or of separate maintenance (or who is separated from her husband under a written separation agreement) the amount of the income of any trust which such wife is entitled to receive and which, except for this section, would be includible in the gross income of her husband, and such amount shall not, despite any other provision of this subtitle, be includible in the gross income of such husband. This subsection shall not apply to that part of any such income of the trust which the terms of the decree, written separation agreement, or trust instrument fix, in terms of an amount of money or a portion of such income, as a sum which is payable for the support of minor children of such husband. In case such income is less than the amount specified in the decree, agreement, or instrument, for the purpose of applying the preceding sentence, such income, to the extent of such sum payable for such support, shall be considered a payment for such support.

#### (b) Wife considered a beneficiary

For purposes of computing the taxable income of the estate or trust and the taxable income of a wife to whom subsection (a) applies, such wife shall be considered as the beneficiary specified in this part.

#### (c) Cross reference

**For definitions of "husband" and "wife", as used in this section, see section 7701(a)(17).**

(Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 234; Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title IV, §422(d)(2), July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 798.)

#### Repeal of Section

Pub. L. 115–97, title I, §11051(b)(1)(C), (c), Dec. 22, 2017, 131 Stat. 2089, 2090, provided that, applicable to any divorce or separation instrument (as defined in former section 71(b)(2) of this title as in effect before Dec. 22, 2017) executed after Dec. 31, 2018, and to such instruments executed on or before Dec. 31, 2018, and modified after Dec. 31, 2018, if the modification expressly provides that the amendment made by section 11051 of Pub. L. 115–97 applies to such modification, this section is repealed.

#### Amendments

**1984**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 98–369 struck out "or section 71" after "subsection (a)" and struck out provision that a periodic payment under section 71 to any portion of which this part applied shall be included in the gross income of the beneficiary in the taxable year in which under this part such portion is required to be included.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal applicable to any divorce or separation instrument (as defined in former section 71(b)(2) of this title as in effect before Dec. 22, 2017) executed after Dec. 31, 2018, and to such instruments executed on or before Dec. 31, 2018, and modified after Dec. 31, 2018, if the modification expressly provides that the amendment made by section 11051 of Pub. L. 115–97 applies to such modification, see section 11051(c) of Pub. L. 115–97, set out as an Effective Date of 2017 Amendment note under section 61 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 98–369 applicable with respect to divorce or separation instruments executed after Dec. 31, 1984, or executed before Jan. 1, 1985, but modified on or after Jan. 1, 1985, with express provision for application of amendment to modification, see section 422(e)(1), (2) of Pub. L. 98–369, set out as a note under section 71 of this title.