### §7705b. Seismic standards

#### (a) Buildings

#### (1) Adoption of standards

The President shall adopt, not later than December 1, 1994, standards for assessing and enhancing the seismic safety of existing buildings constructed for or leased by the Federal Government which were designed and constructed without adequate seismic design and construction standards. Such standards shall be developed by the Interagency Committee on Seismic Safety in Construction, whose chairman is the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology or his designee, and which shall work in consultation with appropriate private sector organizations.

#### (2) Report to Congress

The President shall report to the Congress, not later than December 1, 1994, on how the standards adopted under paragraph (1) could be applied with respect to buildings—

(A) for which Federal financial assistance has been obtained through grants, loans, financing guarantees, or loan or mortgage insurance programs; or

(B) the structural safety of which is regulated by a Federal agency.

#### (3) Regulations

The President shall ensure the issuance, before February 1, 1993, by all Federal agencies of final regulations required by section 4(b) of Executive Order numbered 12699, issued January 5, 1990.

#### (b) Lifelines

The Administrator of the Agency, in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, shall submit to the Congress, not later than June 30, 1992, a plan, including precise timetables and budget estimates, for developing and adopting, in consultation with appropriate private sector organizations, design and construction standards for lifelines. The plan shall include recommendations of ways Federal regulatory authority could be used to expedite the implementation of such standards.

(Pub. L. 95–124, §8, as added Pub. L. 101–614, §8(a), Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3237; amended Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, §612(c), Oct. 4, 2006, 120 Stat. 1410.)

#### References in Text

Executive Order numbered 12699, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), is set out as a note under section 7704 of this title.

#### Change of Name

"Administrator of the Agency" substituted for "Director of the Agency" in subsec. (b) on authority of section 612(c) of Pub. L. 109–295, set out as a note under section 313 of Title 6, Domestic Security. Any reference to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in title VI of Pub. L. 109–295 or an amendment by title VI to be considered to refer and apply to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency until Mar. 31, 2007, see section 612(f)(2) of Pub. L. 109–295, set out as a note under section 313 of Title 6.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see section 315(a)(1) of Title 6, Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.

#### Report on Vulnerability of Buildings Owned and Leased by Government

Pub. L. 101–614, §8(b), Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3238, directed Comptroller General, not later than 18 months after Nov. 16, 1990, to report to Congress on vulnerability of buildings owned and leased by the Federal Government and on efforts of Federal agencies to improve the seismic resistance of buildings they own or lease, and for each such agency, the Comptroller General to enumerate the number of buildings owned or leased by the agency, the seriousness of the seismic risk to such buildings, and the value of the buildings at risk, as well as tabulate the expenditures each such agency had devoted to reducing earthquake damage and estimate the total expenditure necessary to address the problem adequately.

#### Executive Order No. 12941

Ex. Ord. No. 12941, Dec. 1, 1994, 59 F.R. 62545, which related to seismic safety of existing federally owned or leased buildings, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 13717, §5, Feb. 2, 2016, 81 F.R. 6409, set out as a note under section 7704 of this title.