### §3152. Requirements definition matters covered

The joint policy for requirements definition required by section 3151 of this title shall, at a minimum, provide for the following:

(1) The assignment of a senior commissioned officer or civilian member of the senior executive service, with appropriate experience and qualifications related to the definition of requirements to be satisfied through acquisition contracts (such as for delivery of products or services, performance of work, or accomplishment of a project), to act as head of requirements definition and coordination during combat operations, post-conflict operations, and contingency operations, if required, including leading a requirements review board involving all organizations concerned.

(2) An organizational approach to requirements definition and coordination during combat operations, post-conflict operations, and contingency operations that is designed to ensure that requirements are defined in a way that effectively implements United States Government and Department of Defense objectives, policies, and decisions regarding the allocation of resources, coordination of interagency efforts in the theater of operations, and alignment of requirements with the proper use of funds.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1810(a), (b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4162, 4163.)

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.