### §3153. Contingency program management matters covered

The joint policy for contingency program management required by section 3151 of this title shall, at a minimum, provide for the following:

(1) The assignment of a senior commissioned officer or civilian member of the senior executive service, with appropriate program management experience and qualifications, to act as head of program management during combat operations, post-conflict operations, and contingency operations, including stabilization and reconstruction operations involving multiple United States Government agencies and international organizations, if required.

(2) A preplanned organizational approach to program management during combat operations, post-conflict operations, and contingency operations that is designed to ensure that the Department of Defense is prepared to conduct such program management.

(3) Identification of a deployable cadre of experts, with the appropriate tools and authority, and trained in processes under paragraph (6).

(4) Utilization of the hiring and appointment authorities necessary for the rapid deployment of personnel to ensure the availability of key personnel for sufficient lengths of time to provide for continuing program and project management.

(5) A requirement to provide training (including training under a program to be created by the Defense Acquisition University) to program management personnel in—

(A) the use of laws, regulations, policies, and directives related to program management in combat or contingency environments;

(B) the integration of cost, schedule, and performance objectives into practical acquisition strategies aligned with available resources and subject to effective oversight; and

(C) procedures of the Department of Defense related to funding mechanisms and contingency contract management.

  

(6) Appropriate steps to ensure that training is maintained for such personnel even when they are not deployed in a contingency operation.

(7) Such steps as may be needed to ensure jointness and cross-service coordination in the area of program management during contingency operations.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1810(a), (b)(3), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4162, 4163.)

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.