### §1301. Definitions

Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, as used in this chapter:

#### (1) Board

The term "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Office of Compliance.

#### (2) Chair

The term "Chair" means the Chair of the Board of Directors of the Office of Compliance.

#### (3) Covered employee

The term "covered employee" means any employee of—

(A) the House of Representatives;

(B) the Senate;

(C) the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services;

(D) the Capitol Police;

(E) the Congressional Budget Office;

(F) the Office of the Architect of the Capitol;

(G) the Office of the Attending Physician;

(H) the Office of Compliance;

(I) the Office of Technology Assessment; or

(J) the Library of Congress, except for section 1351 of this title.

#### (4) Employee

The term "employee" includes an applicant for employment and a former employee.

#### (5) Employee of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol

The term "employee of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol" includes any employee of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol or the Botanic Garden.

#### (6) Employee of the Capitol Police

The term "employee of the Capitol Police" includes any member or officer of the Capitol Police.

#### (7) Employee of the House of Representatives

The term "employee of the House of Representatives" includes an individual occupying a position the pay for which is disbursed by the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or another official designated by the House of Representatives, or any employment position in an entity that is paid with funds derived from the clerk-hire allowance of the House of Representatives but not any such individual employed by any entity listed in subparagraphs (C) through (I) of paragraph (3).

#### (8) Employee of the Senate

The term "employee of the Senate" includes any employee whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, but not any such individual employed by any entity listed in subparagraphs (C) through (I) of paragraph (3).

#### (9) Employing office

The term "employing office" means—

(A) the personal office of a Member of the House of Representatives or of a Senator;

(B) a committee of the House of Representatives or the Senate or a joint committee;

(C) any other office headed by a person with the final authority to appoint, hire, discharge, and set the terms, conditions, or privileges of the employment of an employee of the House of Representatives or the Senate;

(D) the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services, the United States Capitol Police, the Congressional Budget Office, the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, the Office of the Attending Physician, the Office of Compliance, and the Office of Technology Assessment; or

(E) the Library of Congress, except for section 1351 of this title.

#### (10) Executive Director

The term "Executive Director" means the Executive Director of the Office of Compliance.

#### (11) General Counsel

The term "General Counsel" means the General Counsel of the Office of Compliance.

#### (12) Office

The term "Office" means the Office of Compliance.

(Pub. L. 104–1, title I, §101, Jan. 23, 1995, 109 Stat. 4; Pub. L. 110–279, §1(g)(1), July 17, 2008, 122 Stat. 2609; Pub. L. 110–437, title IV, §422(b)(1), (2), Oct. 20, 2008, 122 Stat. 4996; Pub. L. 111–145, §2(a)(5)(A), Mar. 4, 2010, 124 Stat. 50; Pub. L. 115–141, div. I, title I, §153(a)(1)(A), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 785.)

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 104–1, Jan. 23, 1995, 109 Stat. 3, as amended, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note below and Tables.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Par. (3)(J). Pub. L. 115–141, §153(a)(1)(A)(i), added subpar. (J).

Par. (9)(E). Pub. L. 115–141, §153(a)(1)(A)(ii), added subpar. (E).

**2010**—Par. (9)(D). Pub. L. 111–145 substituted "the United States Capitol Police," for "the Capitol Police Board,".

**2008**—Par. (3)(C). Pub. L. 110–437, §422(b)(1), substituted "the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services;" for "the Capitol Guide Service;".

Par. (5). Pub. L. 110–279, which directed substitution of "or the Botanic Garden" for ", the Botanic Garden, or the Senate Restaurant", was executed by making the substitution for ", the Botanic Garden, or the Senate Restaurants" to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Par. (9)(D). Pub. L. 110–437, §422(b)(2), substituted "the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services," for "the Capitol Guide Board,".

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Pub. L. 115–141, div. I, title I, §153(c), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 787, provided that: "This section \[amending this section and sections 1314 to 1316, 1331, 1341, 1351, 1401, 1404, and 1415 of this title\] and the amendments made by this section—

"(1) shall take effect on the date of enactment of this section \[Mar. 23, 2018\]; and

"(2) shall apply to any charge, complaint, or claim, that is made on or after the date of enactment of this section, of a violation of—

"(A) section 201, 202, 203, 207, or 210 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.) \[2 U.S.C. 1311–1313, 1317, 1331\]; or

"(B) a direct provision as defined in section 404(a) of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1404\[(a)\]) (as added by subsection (b))."

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Pub. L. 110–437, title IV, §422(d), Oct. 20, 2008, 122 Stat. 4997, provided that: "The amendments made by this section \[amending this section and sections 1331 and 1341 of this title and section 2107 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and repealing section 2166 of this title\] shall take effect on the transfer date \[first day of first pay period (applicable to employees transferred under section 2241 of this title) on or after 30 days after Oct. 20, 2008, see section 2261 of this title\]."

Amendment by Pub. L. 110–279 effective July 17, 2008, and applicable to remainder of fiscal year in which enacted and each fiscal year thereafter, see section 2051(i) of this title.

#### Short Title of 2015 Amendment

Pub. L. 114–6, §1, Mar. 20, 2015, 129 Stat. 81, provided that: "This Act \[amending sections 1403, 1404, and 1416 of this title and enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 1381 and 1403 of this title\] may be cited as the 'Office of Compliance Administrative and Technical Corrections Act of 2015'."

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 104–1, §1(a), Jan. 23, 1995, 109 Stat. 3, provided that: "This Act \[enacting this chapter, amending sections 1201, 1202, 1219, 1220, and 1831 of this title, section 6381 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, sections 203, 633a, 2611, and 2617 of Title 29, Labor, and sections 2000e–16 and 12209 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, repealing sections 60m, 60n, 1203 to 1218, 1221, 1223, and 1224 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as a note under section 751 of Title 31, Money and Finance\] may be cited as the 'Congressional Accountability Act of 1995'."

#### Construction of 2010 Amendment

Pub. L. 111–145, §2(a)(5)(B), Mar. 4, 2010, 124 Stat. 50, provided that: "Nothing in the amendment made by subparagraph (A) \[amending this section\] may be construed to affect any procedure initiated under title IV of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 \[2 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.\] prior to the date of the enactment of this Act \[Mar. 4, 2010\]."