### §3208. Indian Child Abuse Treatment Grant Program

#### (a) Establishment

The Service, in cooperation with the Bureau, shall establish an Indian Child Abuse Treatment Grant Program that provides grants to any Indian tribe or intertribal consortium for the establishment on Indian reservations of treatment programs for Indians who have been victims of child abuse or neglect.

#### (b) Grant applications

(1) Any Indian tribe or intertribal consortium, on its own or in partnership with an urban Indian organization, may submit to the Service an application for a grant under subsection (a).

(2) Any application submitted under paragraph (1)—

(A) shall be in such form as the Service may prescribe;

(B) shall be submitted to the Service on or before the date designated by the Service; and

(C) shall specify—

(i) the nature of the program proposed by the applicant,

(ii) the data and information on which the program is based,

(iii) the extent to which the program plans to use or incorporate existing services available on the reservation, and

(iv) the specific treatment concepts to be used under the program.

#### (c) Culturally appropriate treatment

In awarding grants under this section, the Service shall encourage the use of culturally appropriate treatment services and programs that respond to the unique cultural values, customs, and traditions of applicant Indian Tribes.

#### (d) Grant administration and final report

Each recipient of a grant awarded under subsection (a) shall—

(1) furnish the Service with such information as the Service may require to—

(A) evaluate the program for which the grant is made, and

(B) ensure that the grant funds are expended for the purposes for which the grant was made, and

  

(2) submit to the Service at the close of the term of the grant a final report which shall include such information as the Service may require.

#### (e) Report

Not later than 2 years after December 23, 2024, the Service shall submit a report to Congress on the award of grants under this section. The report shall contain—

(1) a description of treatment and services for which grantees have used funds awarded under this section; and

(2) any other information that the Service requires.

#### (f) Authorization of appropriations

there [1](#3208_1_target) is hereby authorized to be appropriated to carry out the provisions of this section $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997.

(Pub. L. 101–630, title IV, §409, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4551; Pub. L. 104–16, §1, June 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 190; Pub. L. 118–160, §2(2), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2567.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2024**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 118–160, §2(2)(A), substituted "The Service, in cooperation with the Bureau" for "The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Service and in cooperation with the Bureau" and "abuse or neglect" for "sexual abuse".

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 118–160, §2(2)(B), (C), inserted ", on its own or in partnership with an urban Indian organization," after "Any Indian tribe or intertribal consortium" and substituted "Service" for "Secretary of Health and Human Services".

Subsec. (b)(2)(A). Pub. L. 118–160, §2(2)(B), substituted "Service" for "Secretary of Health and Human Services".

Subsec. (b)(2)(B). Pub. L. 118–160, §2(2)(D), substituted "the Service" for "such Secretary" in two places.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 118–160, §2(2)(E), amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "The maximum amount of any grant awarded under subsection (a) shall not exceed $500,000."

Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 118–160, §2(2)(B), (D), substituted "Service" for "Secretary of Health and Human Services" and "as the Service" for "as such Secretary" in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 118–160, §2(2)(D), (F), substituted "to the Service" for "to such Secretary" and "as the Service" for "as the Secretary".

Subsecs. (e), (f). Pub. L. 118–160, §2(2)(G), (H), added subsec. (e) and redesignated former subsec. (e) as (f).

**1995**—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 104–16 substituted "1995, 1996, and 1997" for "and 1995".

[1 So in original. Probably should be capitalized.](#3208_1)