### §415–1. Seed distribution

#### (a) In general

The Secretary shall make competitive grants to eligible entities to carry out a seed distribution program to administer and maintain the distribution of vegetable seeds donated by commercial seed companies.

#### (b) Purposes

The purposes of this program include—

(1) the distribution of seeds donated by commercial seed companies free-of-charge to appropriate—

(A) individuals;

(B) groups;

(C) institutions;

(D) governmental and nongovernmental organizations; and

(E) such other entities as the Secretary may designate;

  

(2) distribution of seeds to underserved communities, such as communities that experience—

(A) limited access to affordable fresh vegetables;

(B) a high rate of hunger or food insecurity; or

(C) severe or persistent poverty.

#### (c) Administration

Paragraphs (4), (7), (8), and (11)(B) of subsection (b) of section 450i of this title shall apply with respect to the making of grants under this section.

#### (d) Selection

An eligible entity selected to receive a grant under subsection (a) shall have—

(1) expertise regarding the distribution of vegetable seeds donated by commercial seed companies; and

(2) the ability to achieve the purpose of the seed distribution program.

#### (e) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

(Pub. L. 110–234, title VII, §7523, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1272; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title VII, §7523, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2034.)

#### Codification

The authorities provided by each provision of, and each amendment made by, Pub. L. 110–246, as in effect on Sept. 30, 2012, to continue, and the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out the authorities, until the later of Sept. 30, 2013, or the date specified in the provision of, or amendment made by, Pub. L. 110–246, see section 701(a) of Pub. L. 112–240, set out in a 1-Year Extension of Agricultural Programs note under section 8701 of this title.

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### Effective Date

Enactment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 8701 of this title.

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see section 8701 of this title.