### §320. Coast Guard Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps

(a) Establishment.—The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may establish and maintain a Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps, organized into units, at public and private secondary educational institutions.

(b) Applicability.—Except as provided in subsection (c), the provisions of chapter 102 of title 10 shall apply to a Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps established and maintained under this section in the same manner that such provisions apply to the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps of each military department. For purposes of the application of such provisions to this section—

(1) any reference in such provisions to a "military department" shall be treated as a reference to the department in which the Coast Guard is operating; and

(2) any reference in such provisions to a "Secretary of a military department", a "Secretary concerned", or the "Secretary of Defense" shall be treated as a reference to the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating.

  

(c) Exception.—The requirements of chapter 102 of title 10 shall not apply to a unit of the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps established by the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating before the date of the enactment of this section unless the Secretary determines it is appropriate to apply such requirements to such unit.

(Added Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, §519(a), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1350.)

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (c), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 116–92, which was approved Dec. 20, 2019.