### §314. Marine industry training program

The Commandant shall, by policy, establish a program under which an officer, member, or employee of the Coast Guard may be assigned to a private entity to further the institutional interests of the Coast Guard with regard to marine safety, including for the purpose of providing training to an officer, member, or employee. Policies to carry out the program—

(1) with regard to an employee of the Coast Guard, shall include provisions, consistent with sections 3702 through 3704 of title 5, as to matters concerning—

(A) the duration and termination of assignments;

(B) reimbursements; and

(C) status, entitlements, benefits, and obligations of program participants; and

  

(2) shall require the Commandant, before approving the assignment of an officer, member, or employee of the Coast Guard to a private entity, to determine that the assignment is an effective use of the Coast Guard's funds, taking into account the best interests of the Coast Guard and the costs and benefits of alternative methods of achieving the same results and objectives.

(Added Pub. L. 111–281, title V, §521(a), Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 2956, §59; amended Pub. L. 113–281, title II, §221(a)(1), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3037; renumbered §314, Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §104(b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4196.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 314, act Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393, 63 Stat. 520, related to retiring or dropping for disabilities not incident to service, prior to repeal by act Aug. 3, 1950, ch. 536, §36, 64 Stat. 408. See section 1207 of Title 10, Armed Forces.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282 renumbered section 59 of this title as this section.

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–281 struck out subsec. (a) designation and heading before "The Commandant" and struck out subsec. (b). Text of subsec. (b) read as follows: "Not later than the date of the submission each year of the President's budget request under section 1105 of title 31, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report that describes—

"(1) the number of officers, members, and employees of the Coast Guard assigned to private entities under this section; and

"(2) the specific benefit that accrues to the Coast Guard for each assignment."