### §410gg–2. Administration; fishing; abolition of Biscayne National Monument; monument incorporated within and made part of park; monument funds and appropriations available for park

(a) The Secretary shall preserve and administer the park in accordance with the provisions of sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 [1](#410gg-2_1_target) of this title, as amended and supplemented. The waters within the park shall continue to be open to fishing in conformity with the laws of the State of Florida except as the Secretary, after consultation with appropriate officials of said State, designates species for which, areas and times within which, and methods by which fishing is prohibited, limited, or otherwise regulated in the interest of sound conservation to achieve the purposes for which the park is established: *Provided*, That with respect to lands donated by the State after the effective date of this subchapter, fishing shall be in conformance with State law.

(b) The Biscayne National Monument, as authorized by the Act of October 18, 1968 (82 Stat. 1188; 16 U.S.C. 450qq), as amended, is abolished as such, and all lands, waters, and interests therein acquired or reserved for such monument are hereby incorporated within and made a part of the park. Any funds available for the purposes of such monument are hereby made available for the purposes of the park, and authorizations of funds for the monument shall continue to be available for the park.

(Pub. L. 96–287, title I, §103, June 28, 1980, 94 Stat. 600.)

#### References in Text

Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), were repealed by Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272. For disposition of sections, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

The effective date of this subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means the date of enactment of Pub. L. 96–287, which was approved on June 28, 1980.

Act of October 18, 1968, referred to in subsec. (b), is Pub. L. 90–606, Oct. 18, 1968, 82 Stat. 1188, as amended, which was classified to sections 450qq to 450qq–4 of this title, and was omitted from the Code in view of the abolition of the Biscayne National Monument and its incorporation within the Biscayne National Park pursuant to subsec. (b).

[1 See References in Text note below.](#410gg-2_1)