### §1301a. References to parity prices, etc., in other laws after January 1, 1950

All references in other laws to—

(1) parity,

(2) parity prices,

(3) prices comparable to parity prices, or

(4) prices to be determined in the same manner as provided by the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 \[7 U.S.C. 1281 et seq.\] prior to its amendment by this Act for the determination of parity prices,

  

with respect to prices for agricultural commodities and products thereof, shall hereafter be deemed to refer to parity prices as determined in accordance with the provisions of section 301(a)(1) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 \[7 U.S.C. 1301(a)(1)\], as amended by this Act.

(July 3, 1948, ch. 827, title III, §302(f), 62 Stat. 1258.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, referred to in par. (4), is act Feb. 16, 1938, ch. 30, 52 Stat. 31, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1281 of this title and Tables.

This Act, referred to in par. (4) and concluding provisions, is act July 3, 1948, ch. 827, 62 Stat. 1247, known as the Agricultural Act of 1948, titles II and III of which became effective Jan. 1, 1950. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1948 Amendment note set out under section 1281 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agricultural Act of 1948, and not as part of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 which comprises this chapter.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1950, see section 303 of act July 3, 1948, set out as an Effective Date of 1948 Amendment note under section 1301 of this title.