### §8069. Air Force nurses: Chief; appointment

(a) Position of Chief.—There are [1](#8069_1_target) a Chief of the Air Force Nurse Corps.

(b) Chief.—The Secretary of the Air Force shall appoint the Chief from the officers of the Regular Air Force designated as Air Force nurses whose regular grade is above lieutenant colonel and who are recommended by the Surgeon General. The Chief serves during the pleasure of the Secretary.

(Added Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title V, §502(b), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2511; amended Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title V, §505, Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2004; Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title V, §504(a)(3), Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2531; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, §502(nn)(1), (2), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2106.)

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328, §502(nn)(2), amended section catchline generally, substituting "Air Force nurses: Chief; appointment" for "Air Force nurses: Chief and assistant chief; appointment; grade".

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 114–328, §502(nn)(1)(A), substituted "Position of Chief" for "Positions of Chief and Assistant Chief" in heading and struck out "and assistant chief" after "There are a Chief" in text.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 114–328, §502(nn)(1)(B), struck out second sentence which read as follows: "An appointee who holds a lower regular grade shall be appointed in the regular grade of major general."

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 114–328, §502(nn)(1)(C), struck out subsec. (c). Text read as follows: "The Surgeon General shall appoint the assistant chief from the officers of the Regular Air Force designated as Air Force nurses whose regular grade is above lieutenant colonel."

**2002**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 107–314 substituted "major general" for "brigadier general" in second sentence.

**1998**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 105–261 struck out ", but not for more than three years, and may not be reappointed to the same position" after "pleasure of the Secretary".

[1 So in original. Probably should be "is".](#8069_1)