### §401. Definitions

In this chapter:

(1) Predispute arbitration agreement.—The term "predispute arbitration agreement" means any agreement to arbitrate a dispute that had not yet arisen at the time of the making of the agreement.

(2) Predispute joint-action waiver.—The term "predispute joint-action waiver" means an agreement, whether or not part of a predispute arbitration agreement, that would prohibit, or waive the right of, one of the parties to the agreement to participate in a joint, class, or collective action in a judicial, arbitral, administrative, or other forum, concerning a dispute that has not yet arisen at the time of the making of the agreement.

(3) Sexual assault dispute.—The term "sexual assault dispute" means a dispute involving a nonconsensual sexual act or sexual contact, as such terms are defined in section 2246 of title 18 or similar applicable Tribal or State law, including when the victim lacks capacity to consent.

(4) Sexual harassment dispute.—The term "sexual harassment dispute" means a dispute relating to conduct that is alleged to constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State law.

(Added Pub. L. 117–90, §2(a), Mar. 3, 2022, 136 Stat. 26.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 117–90, §3, Mar. 3, 2022, 136 Stat. 28, provided that: "This Act \[see Short Title of 2022 Amendment note set out under section 1 of this title\], and the amendments made by this Act, shall apply with respect to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the date of enactment of this Act \[Mar. 3, 2022\]."