### §304. Annual report on embassy construction costs

#### (a) In general

Not later than 180 days after December 16, 2016, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives a comprehensive report regarding all ongoing embassy construction projects and major embassy security upgrade projects.

#### (b) Contents

Each report required under subsection (a) shall include the following with respect to each ongoing embassy construction projects and major embassy security upgrade projects:

(1) The initial cost estimate.

(2) The amount expended on the project to date.

(3) The projected timeline for completing the project.

(4) Any cost overruns incurred by the project.

#### (c) Initial report

The first report required under subsection (a) shall include an annex regarding all embassy construction projects and major embassy security upgrade projects completed during the 10-year period ending on December 16, 2016, including, for each such project, the following:

(1) The initial cost estimate.

(2) The amount actually expended on the project.

(3) Any additional time required to complete the project beyond the initial timeline.

(4) Any cost overruns incurred by the project.

(Pub. L. 114–323, title I, §118, Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1912; Pub. L. 115–94, §2(b), Dec. 18, 2017, 131 Stat. 2038.)

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017, and not as part of the Foreign Service Buildings Act, 1926, which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–94 inserted "and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives" after "appropriate congressional committees".

#### Definitions

For definitions of "Secretary" and "appropriate congressional committees" as used in this section, see section 2 of Pub. L. 114–323, set out as a note under section 2651 of this title.