### §104. Mississippi

Mississippi is divided into two judicial districts to be known as the northern and southern districts of Mississippi.

### Northern District

(a) The northern district comprises three divisions.

(1) The Aberdeen Division comprises the counties of Alcorn, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Clay, Itawamba, Lee, Lowndes, Monroe, Oktibbeha, Prentiss, Tishomingo, Webster, and Winston.

Court for the Aberdeen Division shall be held at Aberdeen, Ackerman, and Corinth.

(2) The Oxford Division comprises the counties of Benton, Calhoun, DeSoto, Lafayette, Marshall, Panola, Pontotoc, Quitman, Tallahatchie, Tate, Tippah, Tunica, Union, and Yalobusha.

Court for the Oxford Division shall be held at Oxford.

(3) The Greenville Division comprises the counties of Attala, Bolivar, Carroll, Coahoma, Grenada, Humphreys, Leflore, Montgomery, Sunflower, and Washington.

Court for the Greenville Division shall be held at Clarksdale, Cleveland, and Greenville.

### Southern District

(b) The southern district comprises five divisions.

(1) The Jackson division comprises the counties of Amite, Copiah, Franklin, Hinds, Holmes, Leake, Lincoln, Madison, Pike, Rankin, Scott, Simpson, and Smith.

Court for the Jackson division shall be held at Jackson.

(2) The eastern division comprises the counties of Clarke, Jasper, Kemper, Lauderdale, Neshoba, Newton, Noxubee, and Wayne.

Court for the eastern division shall be held at Meridian.

(3) The western division comprises the counties of Adams, Claiborne, Issaquena, Jefferson, Sharkey, Warren, Wilkinson, and Yazoo.

Court for the western division shall be held at Natchez and Vicksburg.

(4) The southern division comprises the counties of George, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Pearl River, and Stone.

Court for the southern division shall be held at Biloxi and Gulfport.

(5) The Hattiesburg division comprises the counties of Covington, Forrest, Greene, Jefferson Davis, Jones, Lamar, Lawrence, Marion, Perry, and Walthall.

Court for the Hattiesburg division shall be held at Hattiesburg.

(June 25, 1948, ch. 646, 62 Stat. 883; Aug. 7, 1950, ch. 601, 64 Stat. 415; Pub. L. 90–92, Sept. 27, 1967, 81 Stat. 229; Pub. L. 91–546, §§2, 3, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1412; Pub. L. 95–408, §2(b), Oct. 2, 1978, 92 Stat. 883; Pub. L. 106–130, §1, Dec. 6, 1999, 113 Stat. 1677; Pub. L. 108–455, §2, Dec. 10, 2004, 118 Stat. 3628; Pub. L. 112–188, §3, Oct. 5, 2012, 126 Stat. 1433.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., §170 (Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, §90, 36 Stat. 1116; Feb. 5, 1912, ch. 28, 37 Stat. 59; May 27, 1912, ch. 136, 37 Stat. 118; Feb. 12, 1925, ch. 212, 43 Stat. 882; May 19, 1936, ch. 428, 49 Stat. 1362; May 8, 1939, ch. 116, §1, 53 Stat. 684).

Provisions relating to the maintenance of offices by the clerks and marshals were omitted as covered by sections 452, 541 \[see 561\], 542 \[see 561\], and 751 of this title.

Changes in arrangement and phraseology were made.

#### Amendments

**2012**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 112–188 added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a) which related to northern judicial district of Mississippi comprising four divisions and provided for holding court in those divisions.

**2004**—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 108–455 inserted “and Cleveland” after “Clarksdale”.

**1999**—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 106–130, in second sentence, struck out “: *Provided*, That court shall be held at Natchez if suitable quarters and accommodations are furnished at no cost to the United States” before period at end.

**1978**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 95–408 provided for holding court at Corinth.

**1970**—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 91–546, §3, provided for holding court at Natchez if suitable quarters and accommodations are furnished at no cost to the United States.

Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 91–546, §2, provided for holding court at Gulfport.

**1967**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 90–92 provided for holding court at Ackerman.

**1950**—Act Aug. 7, 1950, created Greenville division in the northern district with terms of courts to be held at Greenville.

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Pub. L. 112–188, §4, Oct. 5, 2012, 126 Stat. 1434, provided that: “The amendments made by this Act \[amending this section and section 105 of this title\] take effect on the 60th day after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 5, 2012\].”

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment; Savings Provision

Amendment by Pub. L. 95–408 effective 180 days after Oct. 2, 1978, with such amendment not to affect the composition or preclude the service of any grand or petit juror summoned, empaneled, or actually serving in any judicial district on the effective date of this Act, see section 5 of Pub. L. 95–408, set out as a note under section 89 of this title.