### §3153. National Agricultural Science Award

#### (a) Establishment

The Secretary shall establish the National Agricultural Science Award for research or advanced studies in the food and agricultural sciences, including the social sciences. Two such awards, one for each of the categories described in subsection (d) of this section, shall be made in each fiscal year.

#### (b) Amount and term

The awards shall not exceed $50,000 per year for a period of not to exceed three years to support research or study by the recipient.

#### (c) Eligibility

The awards shall be open to persons in agricultural research, extension, teaching, or any combination thereof.

#### (d) Categories

Awards under this section shall be made in each fiscal year in two categories as follows:

(1) to a scientist in recognition of outstanding contributions to the advancement of the food and agricultural sciences; and

(2) to a research scientist in early career development or a graduate student, in recognition of demonstrated capability and promise of significant future achievement in the food and agricultural sciences.

#### (e) Nominating and selection committees

The Secretary may establish such nominating and selection committees, to consist of scientists and others, to receive nominations and make recommendations for awards under this section, as the Secretary deems appropriate.

(Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, §1418, Sept. 29, 1977, 91 Stat. 997; Pub. L. 97–98, title XIV, §1420(a), Dec. 22, 1981, 95 Stat. 1306.)

#### Amendments

**1981**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 97–98, §1420(a)(2), substituted "Science Award" for "Research Award", and "subsection (d)" for "subsection (c)".

Subsecs. (c) to (e). Pub. L. 97–98, §1420(a)(3), (4), added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsecs. (c) and (d) as (d) and (e), respectively.

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 97–98 effective Dec. 22, 1981, see section 1801 of Pub. L. 97–98, set out as an Effective Date note under section 4301 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1977, see section 1901 of Pub. L. 95–113, set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under section 1307 of this title.