### §711.[1](#CHAPTER41_1_target) Senior members of Military Staff Committee of United Nations: appointment

The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, may appoint an officer of the Army, an officer of the Navy or the Marine Corps, and an officer of the Air Force or the Space Force, as senior members of the Military Staff Committee of the United Nations.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 32; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, §502(f), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2103; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §924(b)(19), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3823.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*             | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 711               | 10:506b(c) (less last 12 words). | Aug. 7, 1947, ch. 512, §504(c) (less last 12 words), 61 Stat 886. |

The words "Within the limitations as to numbers in grade prescribed in this Act", so far as they relate to the Army and the Air Force, are omitted as executed by the declaration of the national emergency on December 16, 1950, in accordance with an opinion of the Judge Advocate General of the Army (JAGA 1951/6180, 17 Oct. 1951). So far as they relate to the Navy and the Marine Corps they are omitted as surplusage. The words "may appoint" are inserted to make it explicit that the revised section prescribes the appointment as well as the rank and pay that go with it. The word "grade" is substituted for the word "rank". The words "Navy or Marine Corps" are substituted for the words "Navy, including the Marine Corps". The words "Army, \* \* \* Air Force" are substituted for the words "Army less the Air Corps \* \* \* Air Corps". The words "pay and allowances of a vice admiral or lieutenant general" are omitted as surplusage, since this is implicit upon appointment to the grade. The words "and Naval" are omitted to conform to the name "Military Staff Committee" established by Article 47 of the United Nations Charter.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283 inserted "or the Space Force" after "Air Force".

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 struck out second sentence which read as follows: "An officer so appointed has the grade of lieutenant general or vice admiral, as the case may be, while serving under that appointment."

[1 Another section 711 is set out in chapter 40 of this title.](#711_1)