### §3555. Regulations; authority of Comptroller General to verify assertions

(a) The Comptroller General shall prescribe such procedures as may be necessary to the expeditious decision of protests under this subchapter, including procedures for accelerated resolution of protests under the express option authorized by section 3554(a)(2) of this title. Such procedures shall provide that the protest process may not be delayed by the failure of a party to make a filing within the time provided for the filing.

(b) The procedures shall provide that, in the computation of any period described in this subchapter—

(1) the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run not be included; and

(2) the last day after such act, event, or default be included, unless—

(A) such last day is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday; or

(B) in the case of a filing of a paper at the Government Accountability Office or a Federal agency, such last day is a day on which weather or other conditions cause the closing of the Government Accountability Office or Federal agency, in which event the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday shall be included.

  

(c) The Comptroller General may prescribe procedures for the electronic filing and dissemination of documents and information required under this subchapter. In prescribing such procedures, the Comptroller General shall consider the ability of all parties to achieve electronic access to such documents and records.

(d) The Comptroller General may use any authority available under chapter 7 of this title and this chapter to verify assertions made by parties in protests under this subchapter.

(Added Pub. L. 98–369, div. B, title VII, §2741(a), July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 1202; amended Pub. L. 103–355, title I, §1404, Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3291; Pub. L. 108–271, §8(b), July 7, 2004, 118 Stat. 814.)

#### Amendments

**2004**—Subsec. (b)(2)(B). Pub. L. 108–271 substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office” in two places.

**1994**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 103–355, §1404(c), substituted “The Comptroller General” for “Not later than January 15, 1985, the Comptroller General”.

Subsecs. (b) to (d). Pub. L. 103–355, §1404(a), (b), added subsecs. (b) and (c) and redesignated former subsec. (b) as (d).

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

For effective date and applicability of amendment by Pub. L. 103–355, see section 10001 of Pub. L. 103–355, set out as a note under section 2302 of Title 10, Armed Forces.

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to any protest filed after Jan. 14, 1985, see section 2751(b) of Pub. L. 98–369, set out as a note under section 2302 of Title 10, Armed Forces.