### §3680A. Disapproval of enrollment in certain courses

(a) The Secretary shall not approve the enrollment of an eligible veteran in any of the following:

(1) Any bartending course or personality development course.

(2) Any sales or sales management course which does not provide specialized training within a specific vocational field.

(3) Any type of course which the Secretary finds to be avocational or recreational in character (or the advertising for which the Secretary finds contains significant avocational or recreational themes) unless the veteran submits justification showing that the course will be of bona fide use in the pursuit of the veteran's present or contemplated business or occupation.

(4) Any independent study program except—

(A) an independent study program (including such a program taken over open circuit television) that—

(i) is accredited by an accrediting agency or association recognized by the Secretary of Education under subpart 2 of part H of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1099b);

(ii) leads to—

(I) a standard college degree;

(II) a certificate that reflects educational attainment offered by an institution of higher learning; or

(III) a certificate that reflects graduation from a course of study offered by—

(aa) an area career and technical education school (as defined in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of section 3(3) of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302(3))) that provides education at the postsecondary level; or

(bb) a postsecondary vocational institution (as defined in section 102(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002(c))) that provides education at the postsecondary level; and

  

(iii) in the case of a program described in clause (ii)(III)—

(I) provides training aligned with the requirements of employers in the State or local area where the program is located, which may include in-demand industry sectors or occupations;

(II) provides a student, upon graduation from the program, with a recognized postsecondary credential that is recognized by employers in the relevant industry, which may include a credential recognized by industry or sector partnerships in the State or local area where the industry is located; and

(III) meets such content and instructional standards as may be required to comply with the criteria under section 3676(c)(14) and (15) of this title; or

  

(B) an online high technology program of education (as defined in subsection (h)(2) of section 3699C of this title)—

(i) the provider of which has entered into a contract with the Secretary under subsection (c) of such section;

(ii) that has been provided to covered individuals (as defined in subsection (h)(1) of such section) under such contract for a period of at least five years;

(iii) regarding which the Secretary has determined that the average employment rate of covered individuals who graduated from such program of education is 65 percent or higher for the year preceding such determination; and

(iv) that satisfies the requirements of subsection (e) of such section.

  

(b) Except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in this title or chapter 106 of title 10, the Secretary shall not approve the enrollment of an eligible veteran in any course of flight training other than one given by an educational institution of higher learning for credit toward a standard college degree the eligible veteran is seeking.

(c) The Secretary shall not approve the enrollment of an eligible veteran in any course to be pursued by radio.

(d)(1) The Secretary shall not approve the enrollment of any eligible veteran, not already enrolled, in any course for any period during which the Secretary finds that more than 85 percent of the students enrolled in the course are having all or part of their tuition, fees, or other charges paid to or for them by the educational institution or by the Department of Veterans Affairs under this title or under chapter 1606 of title 10, except with respect to tuition, fees, or other charges that are paid under a payment plan at an educational institution that the Secretary determines has a history of offering payment plans that are completed not later than 180 days after the end of the applicable term, quarter, or semester.

(2) The Secretary may waive the requirements of paragraph (1), in whole or in part, if the Secretary determines, pursuant to regulations which the Secretary shall prescribe, it to be in the interest of the eligible veteran and the Federal Government.

(3)(A) The Secretary shall establish a process by which an educational institution may request a review of a determination that the educational institution does not meet the requirements of paragraph (1).

(B) An educational institution that requests a review under subparagraph (A)—

(i) shall request the review not later than 30 days after the start of the term, quarter, or semester for which the determination described in subparagraph (A) applies; and

(ii) may include any information that the educational institution believes the Department should have taken into account when making the determination, including with respect to any mitigating circumstances.

  

(C) The Under Secretary of Benefits shall issue an initial decision for each review requested under subparagraph (A) by not later than 30 days after the date of the request, to the extent feasible.

(D) An educational institution may request the Secretary to review the decision by the Under Secretary under subparagraph (C). The Secretary shall review each decision so requested and, pursuant to such review, shall issue a final decision sustaining, modifying, or overturning the decision by the Under Secretary.

(E) The Secretary shall carry out this paragraph without regard to any review process carried out by the Secretary under chapter 51 of this title.

(4) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any course offered by an educational institution if—

(A) the majority of courses offered by the educational institution are approved under section 3672 or 3675 of this title; and

(B) the total number of veterans and persons receiving assistance under this title or under chapter 1606 of title 10 who are enrolled in such institution equals 35 percent or less of the total student enrollment at such institution (computed separately for the main campus and any branch or extension of such institution).

  

(5)(A) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any course offered by an educational institution if—

(i) the majority of courses offered by the educational institution are approved under section 3676 of this title; and

(ii) the total number of veterans and persons receiving assistance under this title or under chapter 1606 of title 10 who are enrolled in such institution equals 35 percent or less of the total student enrollment at such institution (computed separately for the main campus and any branch or extension of such institution).

  

(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), on a case by case basis, the Secretary may apply paragraph (1) with respect to any course otherwise covered by such subparagraph if the Secretary has reason to believe that the enrollment of veterans and persons described in clause (ii) of such subparagraph may be in excess of 85 percent of the total student enrollment in such course.

(6) The Secretary shall ensure that an educational institution that meets the requirements of paragraph (4) or (5) submits information to the Secretary on a biennial basis to verify meeting such requirements. During such biennial period in which an educational institution is covered by such verification, the Secretary may not require the educational institution to submit information with respect to meeting the requirements of paragraph (1).

(7) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to the enrollment of a veteran—

(A) in a program of education for which fewer than 10 students are having all or part of their tuition, fees, or other charges paid to or for them by the educational institution or by the Department of Veterans Affairs under this title or under chapter 1606 of title 10;

(B) in a course offered pursuant to section 3019, 3034(a)(3), 3234, or 3241(a)(2) of this title;

(C) in a farm cooperative training course; or

(D) in a course described in subsection (g).

  

(8) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the enrollment of a veteran in an online high technology program described in subsection (a)(4)(B).

  

(e)(1) [1](#3680A_1_target) The Secretary may not approve the enrollment of an eligible veteran in a course not leading to a standard college degree offered by a proprietary profit or proprietary nonprofit educational institution if—

(A) the educational institution has been operating for less than two years;

(B) except as provided in paragraph (2), the course is offered at a branch of the educational institution and the branch has been operating for less than two years; or

(C) following either a change in ownership or a complete move outside its original general locality, the educational institution does not retain substantially the same faculty, student body, and courses as before the change in ownership or the move outside the general locality (as determined in accordance with regulations the Secretary shall prescribe) unless the educational institution following such change or move has been in operation for at least two years.

  

(2)(A) Subject to this paragraph, a commercial driver education program is exempt from paragraph (1)(B) for a branch of an educational institution if—

(i) the commercial driver education program offered at the branch by the educational institution is approved for purposes of this chapter by a State approving agency (or the Secretary when acting in the role of a State approving agency); and

(ii)(I) such branch is located in a State in which such educational institution offers such commercial driver education program at another branch of such educational institution; or

(II) such branch—

(aa) has been operating for at least one year; and

(bb) offers such commercial driver education program, using the same curriculum as another branch of such educational institution.

  

(B)(i) In order for a commercial driver education program of an educational institution offered at a branch described in paragraph (1)(B) to be exempt under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the educational institution shall submit to the Secretary each year that paragraph (1)(B) would otherwise apply a report that demonstrates that the curriculum at the new branch is the same as the curriculum at the primary location.

(ii) Reporting under clause (i) shall be submitted in accordance with such requirements as the Secretary shall establish in consultation with the State approving agencies.

(C)(i) The Secretary may withhold an exemption under subparagraph (A) for any educational institution or branch of an educational institution as the Secretary considers appropriate.

(ii) In making any determination under clause (i), the Secretary may consult with the Secretary of Transportation on the performance of a provider of a commercial driver program, including the status of the provider within the Training Provider Registry of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration when appropriate.

(D) The Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a notification not later than 30 days after the Secretary grants an exemption under subparagraph (A). Such notification shall identify the educational institution, and the branch thereof, granted such exemption.

(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary may not approve the enrollment of an eligible veteran in a course as a part of a program of education offered by an educational institution if the course is provided under contract by another educational institution or entity and—

(A) the Secretary would be barred under subsection (e) from approving the enrollment of an eligible veteran in the course of the educational institution or entity providing the course under contract; or

(B) the educational institution or entity providing the course under contract has not obtained approval for the course under this chapter.

  

(2)(A) In the case of a covered study-abroad course, the Secretary may approve the course for a period of not more than five years, if the contract or other written agreement under which the course is offered provides that—

(i) the educational institution that offers a course that is approved under this chapter agrees—

(I) to assume responsibility for the quality and content of the covered study-abroad course; and

(II) to serve as the certifying official for the course for purposes of this chapter; and

  

(ii) the educational institution that offers the covered study-abroad course agrees to seek the approval of the course under this chapter by not later than five years after the date of the agreement.

  

(B) In this paragraph, the term "covered study-abroad course" means a course that—

(i) is provided as a part of a program of education offered by an educational institution under a contract or other written agreement by another educational institution that offers a course that is approved under this chapter;

(ii) is provided at a location in a foreign country; and

(iii) has not been approved under this chapter.

  

(g) Notwithstanding subsections (e) and (f)(1), the Secretary may approve the enrollment of an eligible veteran in a course approved under this chapter if the course is offered by an educational institution under contract with the Department of Defense or the Department of Homeland Security and is given on or immediately adjacent to a military base, Coast Guard station, National Guard facility, or facility of the Selected Reserve.

(h) In this section, the terms "State or local area", "recognized postsecondary credential", "industry or sector partnership", and "in-demand industry sector or occupation" have the meaning given such terms in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).

(Added Pub. L. 102–568, title III, §313(a)(2), Oct. 29, 1992, 106 Stat. 4331; amended Pub. L. 104–275, title I, §§103(a)(2), (b), 104(c), Oct. 9, 1996, 110 Stat. 3326, 3327; Pub. L. 105–114, title IV, §401(d), (e), Nov. 21, 1997, 111 Stat. 2293; Pub. L. 105–368, title X, §1005(b)(9), Nov. 11, 1998, 112 Stat. 3365; Pub. L. 107–103, title I, §111(a), Dec. 27, 2001, 115 Stat. 986; Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, §1704(d), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2315; Pub. L. 115–48, title III, §302, Aug. 16, 2017, 131 Stat. 990; Pub. L. 117–174, §2(a), Aug. 26, 2022, 136 Stat. 2104; Pub. L. 117–333, §9(a), Jan. 5, 2023, 136 Stat. 6130; Pub. L. 118–95, §2(a), Oct. 1, 2024, 138 Stat. 1567; Pub. L. 118–210, title II, §§206(b)(2)(D), 209(a), 212(c), Jan. 2, 2025, 138 Stat. 2764, 2765, 2773.)

#### Applicability of Amendment

Amendment of subsection (e) of this section by section 2(a) of Pub. L. 118–95 applicable 365 days after the date on which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs establishes the requirements under section 2(b)(1) of Pub. L. 118–95. See 2024 Amendment notes below.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (a)(4)(A)(i), is Pub. L. 89–329, Nov. 8, 1965, 79 Stat. 1219. Subpart 2 of part H of title IV of the Act is classified generally to subpart 2 (§1099b) of part H of subchapter IV of chapter 28 of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1 of Pub. L. 89–329, set out as a Short Title note under section 1001 of Title 20 and Tables.

#### Amendments

**2025**—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 118–210, §212(c)(1), added par. (4) and struck out former par. (4) which related to independent study programs.

Subsec. (a)(4)(C)(iii). Pub. L. 118–210, §206(b)(2)(D), substituted "section 3676(c)(15) and (16)" for "section 3676(c)(14) and (15)".

Subsec. (d)(8). Pub. L. 118–210, §212(c)(2), added par. (8).

Subsec. (e)(2)(A). Pub. L. 118–210, §209(a)(1)(A), substituted "institution if—" for "the commercial driver education program offered at the branch by the educational institution—" in introductory provisions.

**2024**—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 118–95, §2(a)(1), (2), (4), designated existing provisions as par. (1), redesignated former pars. (1) to (3) as subpars. (A) to (C), respectively, of par. (1), and added par. (2).

Subsec. (e)(1)(B). Pub. L. 118–95, §2(a)(3), inserted "except as provided in paragraph (2)," before "the course".

Subsec. (e)(2)(A)(i), (ii). Pub. L. 118–210, §209(a)(1)(B), added cls. (i) and (ii) and struck out former cls. (i) and (ii) which read as follows:

"(i) is appropriately licensed; and

"(ii) uses the same curriculum as a commercial driver education program offered by the educational institution at another location that is approved for purposes of this chapter by a State approving agency or the Secretary when acting in the role of a State approving agency."

Subsec. (e)(2)(D). Pub. L. 118–210, §209(a)(2), added subpar. (D).

**2023**—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 117–333 designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted "Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary" for "The Secretary", redesignated former pars. (1) and (2) as subpars. (A) and (B) of par. (1), and added par. (2).

**2022**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 117–174 amended subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (d) related to disapproval of enrollment in a course for any period during which the Secretary finds that more than 85 percent of the students enrolled in the course are having all or part of their tuition, fees, or other charges paid to or for them by the educational institution or by the Department of Veterans Affairs under this title or under chapter 106 of title 10, subject to waivers and exceptions.

**2017**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–48, §302(1)(A), substituted "in any of the following:" for "in—" in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1), (2). Pub. L. 115–48, §302(1)(B), (C), substituted "Any" for "any" and substituted period for semicolon at end.

Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 115–48, §302(1)(D), substituted "Any" for "any" and substituted period at end for "; or".

Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 115–48, §302(1)(E), added par. (4) and struck out former par. (4), which read as follows: "any independent study program except an accredited independent study program (including open circuit television) leading (A) to a standard college degree, or (B) to a certificate that reflects educational attainment offered by an institution of higher learning."

Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 115–48, §302(2), added subsec. (h).

**2002**—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 107–296 substituted "of Homeland Security" for "of Transportation".

**2001**—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 107–103 inserted "(A)" after "leading" and ", or (B) to a certificate that reflects educational attainment offered by an institution of higher learning" before period at end.

**1998**—Subsec. (d)(2)(C). Pub. L. 105–368 struck out "section" before "subsection (g)".

**1997**—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 105–114, §401(d), inserted "(including open circuit television)" before "leading to a standard".

Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 105–114, §401(e), substituted "subsections (e) and (f)(1)" for "subsections (e) and (f)".

**1996**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104–275, §104(c), substituted "radio." for "radio or by open circuit television, except that the Secretary may approve the enrollment of an eligible veteran in a course, to be pursued in residence, leading to a standard college degree which includes, as an integral part thereof, subjects offered through open circuit television."

Subsec. (d)(2)(C). Pub. L. 104–275, §103(a)(2), substituted "subsection (g)" for "3689(b)(6) of this title".

Subsecs. (e) to (g). Pub. L. 104–275, §103(b), added subsecs. (e) to (g).

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2025 Amendment

Pub. L. 118–210, title II, §209(c), Jan. 2, 2025, 138 Stat. 2766, provided that: "The amendments made by this section \[amending this section\] shall take effect as if included in such Act \[Pub. L. 118–95\] on the date of the enactment of such Act \[Oct. 1, 2024\]."

#### Effective Date of 2024 Amendment

Pub. L. 118–95, §2(b)(2), Oct. 1, 2024, 138 Stat. 1568, as amended by Pub. L. 118–210, title II, §209(b)(1), Jan. 2, 2025, 138 Stat. 2766, provided that: "The amendments made by subsection (a) \[amending this section\] shall apply to commercial driver education programs on and after the date that is 365 days after the date on which the Secretary establishes the requirements under paragraph (1) of this subsection \[set out as a note below\]."

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Pub. L. 117–174, §2(b), Aug. 26, 2022, 136 Stat. 2106, provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (a) \[amending this section\] shall apply with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, commencing on or after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Aug. 26, 2022\]."

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 107–296 effective on the date of transfer of the Coast Guard to the Department of Homeland Security, see section 1704(g) of Pub. L. 107–296, set out as a note under section 101 of Title 10, Armed Forces.

#### Effective Date of 2001 Amendment

Pub. L. 107–103, title I, §111(b), Dec. 27, 2001, 115 Stat. 987, provided that: "The amendments made by subsection (a) \[amending this section\] shall apply to enrollments in independent study courses beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 27, 2001\]."

#### Regulations

Pub. L. 118–95, §2(b)(3), as added by Pub. L. 118–210, title II, §209(b)(2), Jan. 2, 2025, 138 Stat. 2766, provided that: "In prescribing any regulation to carry out the amendments made by subsection (a) \[amending this section\], the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall consult with State approving agencies designated under section 3671 of such title \[title 38, United States Code\]."

#### Savings Provision

Section not applicable to any person receiving educational assistance for pursuit of an independent study program in which the person was enrolled on Oct. 29, 1992, for as long as such person is continuously thereafter so enrolled and meets requirements of eligibility for such assistance, see section 313(b) of Pub. L. 102–568, set out as a note under section 16136 of Title 10, Armed Forces.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.

#### Implementation: Establishment of Requirements

Pub. L. 118–95, §2(b)(1), Oct. 1, 2024, 138 Stat. 1568, provided that: "Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 1, 2024\], the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish requirements under section 3680A(e)(2)(B)(ii) of such title \[title 38, United States Code\], as added by subsection (a)."

#### Treatment of Certain Courses

Pub. L. 117–333, §9(b), Jan. 5, 2023, 136 Stat. 6131, provided that: "In the case of any covered study-abroad course, under the meaning given such term in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of subsection (f) of section 3680A of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), that is being offered under a contract or other written agreement as of the date of the enactment of this Act \[Jan. 5, 2023\], the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may approve such course under such paragraph (2) for the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, if such contract or other written agreement meets the criteria provided in subparagraph (A) of such paragraph."

[1 See Applicability of Amendment note below.](#3680A_1)