### §15704. Inspector General; records

(a) Appointment of Inspector General.—There shall be an Inspector General for the Commissions appointed in accordance with section 403(a) of title 5. All of the Commissions shall be subject to a single Inspector General.

(b) Records of a Commission.—

(1) In general.—A Commission shall maintain accurate and complete records of all its transactions and activities.

(2) Availability.—All records of a Commission shall be available for audit and examination by the Inspector General (including authorized representatives of the Inspector General).

  

(c) Records of Recipients of Commission Assistance.—

(1) In general.—A recipient of funds from a Commission under this subtitle shall maintain accurate and complete records of transactions and activities financed with the funds and report to the Commission on the transactions and activities.

(2) Availability.—All records required under paragraph (1) shall be available for audit by the Commission and the Inspector General (including authorized representatives of the Commission and the Inspector General).

  

(d) Annual Audit.—The Inspector General shall audit the activities, transactions, and records of each Commission on an annual basis.

(Added Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, §14217(a)(2), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1480, and Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title XIV, §14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2242; amended Pub. L. 117–286, §4(b)(70), Dec. 27, 2022, 136 Stat. 4350.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### Amendments

**2022**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 117–286 substituted "section 403(a) of title 5." for "section 3(a) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)."

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first fiscal year beginning after June 18, 2008, see section 14217(d) of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 15101 of this title.