### §4852. Assistant Secretaries of Commerce

#### (a) In general

The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, two Assistant Secretaries of Commerce to assist the Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security in carrying out the functions described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 4851(a) of this title.

#### (b) Continuation in office of one Assistant Secretary

An individual appointed as an Assistant Secretary of Commerce under section 15(a) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 [1](#4852_1_target) (as continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) and serving in that position on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act may serve in one of the Assistant Secretary positions established under subsection (a) on and after that date without the need for renomination or reappointment.

(Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, §1782, as added Pub. L. 116–6, div. H, title II, §205(b), Feb. 15, 2019, 133 Stat. 476.)

#### References in Text

Section 15(a) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, referred to subsec. (b), was classified to section 4617(a) of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, §1766(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2232.

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), referred to in subsec. (b), is title II of Pub. L. 95–223, Dec. 28, 1977, 91 Stat. 1626, which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§1701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of this title and Tables.

The date of the enactment of this Act, referred to in subsec. (b), probably means the date of enactment of Pub. L. 115–232, which was approved Aug. 13, 2018.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#4852_1)