### §8039. Chief of Chaplains: appointment; duties

(a) Chief of Chaplains.—(1) There is a Chief of Chaplains in the Air Force, appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from officers of the Air Force designated under section 8067(h) of this title as chaplains who—

(A) are serving on active duty; and

(B) have served on active duty as a chaplain for at least eight years.

  

(2) An officer appointed as the Chief of Chaplains shall be appointed for a term of three years. However, the President may terminate or extend the appointment at any time.

(3) The Chief of Chaplains shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force and by law.

(b) Selection Board.—Under regulations approved by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Air Force, in selecting an officer for recommendation to the President for appointment as the Chief of Chaplains, shall ensure that the officer selected is recommended by a board of officers that, insofar as practicable, is subject to the procedures applicable to the selection boards convened under chapter 36 of this title.

(Added Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, §508(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1716; amended Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, §502(mm), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2106.)

#### Amendments

**2016**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 114–328, §502(mm)(1), redesignated subpars. (B) and (C) as (A) and (B), respectively, and struck out former subpar. (A) which read as follows: "are serving in the grade of colonel or above;".

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 114–328, §502(mm)(2), struck out subsec. (c). Text read as follows: "An officer appointed as Chief of Chaplains who holds a lower regular grade may be appointed in the regular grade of major general."