### §7221a. Program authorized

#### (a) In general

The Secretary may carry out a charter school program that supports charter schools that serve early childhood, elementary school, or secondary school students by—

(1) supporting the startup of new charter schools, the replication of high-quality charter schools, and the expansion of high-quality charter schools;

(2) assisting charter schools in accessing credit to acquire and renovate facilities for school use; and

(3) carrying out national activities to support—

(A) the activities described in paragraph (1);

(B) the dissemination of best practices of charter schools for all schools;

(C) the evaluation of the impact of the charter school program under this part on schools participating in such program; and

(D) stronger charter school authorizing practices.

#### (b) Funding allotment

From the amount made available under section 7221j of this title for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall—

(1) reserve 12.5 percent to support charter school facilities assistance under section 7221c of this title;

(2) reserve 22.5 percent to carry out national activities under section 7221d of this title; and

(3) use the remaining amount after the reservations under paragraphs (1) and (2) to carry out section 7221b of this title.

#### (c) Prior grants and subgrants

The recipient of a grant or subgrant under part B of title V (as such part was in effect on the day before December 10, 2015) shall continue to receive funds in accordance with the terms and conditions of such grant or subgrant.

(Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, §4302, as added Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, §4301(1), Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 1994.)

#### References in Text

Part B of title V (as such part was in effect on the day before December 10, 2015), referred to in subsec. (c), means part B of title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, which was classified generally to part B (§7221 et seq.) of subchapter V of this chapter prior to being amended by Pub. L. 114–95. Pub. L 114–95, title IV, §§4001(b)(1)(B), (2), 4301, Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 1967, 1993, which repealed subparts 2 (§7223 et seq.) and 3 (§7225 et seq.) of part B of subchapter V, redesignated the remainder of part B as this part, struck out the subpart 1 designation and heading, repealed and amended various sections of this part, and added several new sections. For complete classification of Pub. L. 114–95 to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7221a, Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, §4302, formerly title V, §5202, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, §501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1788; renumbered title IV, §4302, Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, §4001(b)(2)(A), (B), (D)(iii), Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 1967, related to authorization of grant program, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, §4301(1), Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 1993, effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs.

A prior section 4302 of Pub. L. 89–10 was renumbered section 8572, and is classified to section 7972 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95, set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under section 6301 of this title.