### §1639c. Savings provisions

#### (a) Trade

This subchapter shall be applied in a manner consistent with United States obligations under international agreements.

#### (b) Other authorities

Nothing in this subchapter—

(1) affects the authority of the Secretary of Health and Human Services or creates any rights or obligations for any person under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.); or

(2) affects the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury or creates any rights or obligations for any person under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 201 et seq.).

#### (c) Other

A food may not be considered to be "not bioengineered", "non-GMO", or any other similar claim describing the absence of bioengineering in the food solely because the food is not required to bear a disclosure that the food is bioengineered under this subchapter.

(Aug. 14, 1946, ch. 966, title II, §294, as added Pub. L. 114–216, §1, July 29, 2016, 130 Stat. 838.)

#### References in Text

The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is act June 25, 1938, ch. 675, 52 Stat. 1040, which is classified generally to chapter 9 (§301 et seq.) of Title 21, Food and Drugs. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 301 of Title 21 and Tables.

The Federal Alcohol Administration Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is act Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814, 49 Stat. 977, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§201 et seq.) of chapter 8 of Title 27, Intoxicating Liquors. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 201 of Title 27 and Tables.