### §3796ee–4. Guidelines

#### (a) In general

The Attorney General shall issue guidelines establishing procedures under which a State or specifically [1](#3796ee-4_1_target) qualified unit of local government that receives funds under section 3796ee–3 of this title is required to provide notice to the Attorney General regarding the proposed use of funds made available under this subchapter.

#### (b) Advisory board

#### (1) In general

The guidelines referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall include a requirement that such eligible State or unit of local government establish and convene an advisory board to recommend a coordinated enforcement plan for the use of such funds.

#### (2) Membership

The board shall include representation from, if appropriate—

(A) the State or local police department;

(B) the local sheriff's department;

(C) the State or local prosecutor's office;

(D) the State or local juvenile court;

(E) the State or local probation office;

(F) the State or local educational agency;

(G) a State or local social service agency;

(H) a nonprofit, nongovernmental victim advocacy organization; and

(I) a nonprofit, religious, or community group.

(Pub. L. 90–351, title I, §1804, as added Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, §12102(a), Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1865.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3796ee–4, Pub. L. 90–351, title I, §1805, as added Pub. L. 103–322, title II, §20201(a)(3), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1821, related to allocation and distribution of funds, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–273.

A prior section 1804 of Pub. L. 90–351 was classified to section 3796ee–3 of this title prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–273.

[1 So in original. Probably should be “specially”.](#3796ee-4_1)