### §9482. Operation

In maintaining camps established under section 9481 of this title, the Secretary of the Air Force may—

(1) prescribe the periods during which they will be operated;

(2) prescribe regulations for their administration;

(3) prescribe the courses to be taught;

(4) detail members of the Regular Air Force or the Regular Space Force to designated duties relating to the camps;

(5) use necessary supplies and transportation;

(6) furnish uniforms, subsistence, and medical attendance and supplies to persons attending the camp; and

(7) authorize necessary expenditures from proper Air Force or Space Force funds for—

(A) water;

(B) fuel;

(C) light;

(D) temporary structures, except barracks and officers' quarters;

(E) screening;

(F) damages resulting from field exercises;

(G) expenses incident to theoretical winter instruction of trainees; and

(H) other expenses incident to maintaining the camps.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 571, §9412; renumbered §9482 and amended Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §§806(a)(2), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1832, 1840; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §923(d)(17), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3816.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                                                                         | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 9412              | 10:442 (47 words after 1st semicolon, and 72 words before 3d semicolon, of 1st sentence; and last sentence). | June 3, 1916, ch. 134, §47d (47 words after 1st semicolon, and 72 words before 3d semicolon, of 1st sentence; and last sentence); added June 4, 1920, ch. 227, subch. I, §34 (47 words after 1st semicolon, and 72 words before 3d semicolon, of 1st sentence; and last sentence of last par.), 41 Stat. 779. |

The word "supplies" is substituted for the words "such arms, ammunition, accoutrements, equipments, tentage, field equipage", since, under the definition of the word "supplies", in section 101(26) of this title, those words are covered by the word "supplies". The words "belonging to the United States", "and imparting military instruction and training thereat", "during the period of their attendance", "theoretical and practical instruction", "persons attending the camps authorized by this section", and "as he may deem" are omitted as surplusage. The word "detail" is substituted for the word "employ". The word "members" is substituted for the words "officers, warrant officers, and enlisted men".

#### Amendments

**2021**—Par. (4). Pub. L. 116–283, §923(d)(17)(A), inserted "or the Regular Space Force" after "Regular Air Force".

Par. (7). Pub. L. 116–283, §923(d)(17)(B), inserted "or Space Force" after "Air Force" in introductory provisions.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 9412 of this title as this section and substituted "section 9481" for "section 9411" in introductory provisions.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.