### §2101. Congressional declaration of policy

Cotton is the basic natural fiber of the Nation. It is produced by many individual cottongrowers throughout the various cotton-producing States of the Nation and also outside the United States. Cotton moves in the channels of interstate and foreign commerce and such cotton which does not move in such channels directly burdens or affects interstate commerce in cotton and cotton products. The efficient production of cotton and the maintenance and expansion of existing markets and the development of new or improved markets and uses is vital to the welfare of cottongrowers and those concerned with marketing, using, and processing cotton as well as the general economy of the Nation. The great inroads on the market and uses for cotton which have been made by manmade fibers have been largely the result of extensive research and promotion which have not been effectively matched by cotton research and promotion. The production and marketing of cotton by numerous individual farmers have prevented the development and carrying out of adequate and coordinated programs of research and promotion necessary to the maintenance and improvement of the competitive position of, and markets for, cotton. Without an effective and coordinated method for assuring cooperative and collective action in providing for, and financing such programs, individual cotton farmers are unable adequately to provide or obtain the research and promotion necessary to maintain and improve markets for cotton.

It has long been found to be in the public interest to have, or endeavor to have, a reasonable balance between the supply of and demand for cotton grown in this country. To serve this public interest the Congress has provided for the comprehensive exercise of regulatory authority in regulating the handling of such cotton supplemented by price-support programs with the objective of adjusting supply to demand in the interest of benefiting producers and all others concerned with the production and handling of cotton as well as the general economy of the country. In order for the objective of such programs to be effectuated to the fullest degree, it is necessary that the existing regulation of marketing be supplemented by providing as part of the overall governmental program for effectuating this objective, means of increasing the demand for cotton with the view of eventually reducing or eliminating the need for limiting marketings and supporting the price of cotton.

It is therefore declared to be the policy of the Congress and the purpose of this chapter that it is essential in the public interest through the exercise of the powers provided herein, to authorize and enable the establishment of an orderly procedure for the development, financing through adequate assessments on all cotton marketed in the United States and on imports of cotton, and carrying out an effective and continuous coordinated program of research and promotion designed to strengthen cotton's competitive position and to maintain and expand domestic and foreign markets and uses for United States cotton.

(Pub. L. 89–502, §2, July 13, 1966, 80 Stat. 279; Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, §1991, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3909.)

#### Amendments

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–624, in first undesignated par., inserted “and also outside the United States”, struck out “in large part” before “in the channels of interstate”, “All cotton produced in the United States is in the current of interstate or foreign commerce or directly burdens, obstructs, or affects interstate or foreign commerce in cotton and cotton products.” before “The efficient production”, and “In the years since World War II, United States cotton and the products thereof have been confronted with intensive competition, both at home and abroad, from foreign-grown cotton and from other fibers, primarily manmade fibers.” after “economy of the Nation.”, and substituted “The great inroads on the market and uses for” for “The great inroads on the market and uses for United States” and, in third undesignated par., substituted “marketed” for “harvested” and inserted “and on imports of cotton”.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 89–502, §20, July 13, 1966, 80 Stat. 287, provided that: “This Act \[enacting this chapter\] shall take effect upon enactment \[July 13, 1966\]”.

#### Short Title of 1990 Amendment

Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, §1990, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3909, provided that: “This subtitle \[subtitle G (§§1990–1998) of title XIX of Pub. L. 101–624, amending this section and sections 2106 to 2110 and 2116 of this title, and enacting provisions set out below\] may be cited as the ‘Cotton Research and Promotion Act Amendments of 1990’.”

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 89–502, §1, July 13, 1966, 80 Stat. 279, provided: “That this Act \[enacting this chapter\] shall be known as the ‘Cotton Research and Promotion Act’.”

#### Reports on Implementation and Enforcement of Cotton Research and Promotion Program

Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, §1998, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3913, as amended by Pub. L. 102–237, title VIII, §808(b), Dec. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1883, provided that:

“(a) In General.—Not later than 1 year after the date on which imports are subject to assessments under this subtitle \[subtitle G of title XIX of Pub. L. 101–624, see Short Title of 1990 Amendment note above\]—

“(1) the Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare a report concerning the implementation and enforcement of the cotton research and promotion program, and any problems that may have arisen in the implementation and enforcement of such program; and

“(2) the Customs Service shall, if on such date it has any role in the implementation or enforcement of such assessments, prepare a report concerning such implementation and enforcement as it relates to imports.

“(b) Comptroller General Report.—Not prior to the date that occurs 3 years after the date on which imports are subject to assessments under this subtitle, the Comptroller General shall prepare a report concerning the administration of the cotton research and promotion program as it relates to such imports. Such report shall be submitted not later than 6 months after such date, and include an analysis of—

“(1) the growth in the United States market for cotton and cotton products, with particular attention provided to the period of time subsequent to the imposition of assessments on such imports;

“(2) the extent to which import restrictions, such as quotas, on imports of cotton and cotton-containing products have permitted or prevented importers from benefiting from any such growth in the United States market; and

“(3) the relevant United States international obligations applicable under trade agreements that relate to the assessments on imports of cotton and cotton products under this subtitle.

“(c) Submission.—The reports required under subsections (a) and (b) shall be submitted to the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee on Finance of the Senate not later than the applicable dates referred to in such subsections.

“(d) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated such funds as may be necessary to carry out this section.”