### §747. Command: when different commands of Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, and Coast Guard join

When different commands of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, and Coast Guard join or serve together, the officer highest in rank in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, or Coast Guard on duty there, who is otherwise eligible to command, commands all those forces unless otherwise directed by the President.

(Added Pub. L. 90–235, §5(a)(1)(A), Jan. 2, 1968, 81 Stat. 760; amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §924(b)(2)(A)(iv), (B), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3821.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §924(b)(2)(B), amended section catchline generally. Prior to amendment, section catchline read as follows: "Command: when different commands of Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard join".

Pub. L. 116–283, §924(b)(2)(A)(iv), substituted "Marine Corps, Space Force," for "Marine Corps," in two places.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.