### §1492a. Study of Electric Rates in the Insular Areas

#### (a) Definitions

In this section:

#### (1) Comprehensive energy plan

The term "comprehensive energy plan" means a comprehensive energy plan prepared and updated under subsections (c) and (e) of section 1492 of this title.

#### (2) Energy action plan

The term "energy action plan" means the plan required by subsection (d).

#### (3) Freely associated states

The term "Freely Associated States" means the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau.

#### (4) Insular areas

The term "insular areas" means American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.

#### (5) Secretary

The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Interior.

#### (6) Team

The term "team" means the team established by the Secretary under subsection (b).

#### (b) Establishment

Not later than 180 days after December 16, 2014, the Secretary shall, within the Empowering Insular Communities activity, establish a team of technical, policy, and financial experts—

(1) to develop an energy action plan addressing the energy needs of each of the insular areas and Freely Associated States; and

(2) to assist each of the insular areas and Freely Associated States in implementing such plan.

#### (c) Participation of Regional Utility Organizations

In establishing the team, the Secretary shall consider including regional utility organizations.

#### (d) Energy Action Plan

In accordance with subsection (b), the energy action plan shall include—

(1) recommendations, based on the comprehensive energy plan where applicable, to—

(A) reduce reliance and expenditures on fuel shipped to the insular areas and Freely Associated States from ports outside the United States;

(B) develop and utilize domestic fuel energy sources; and

(C) improve performance of energy infrastructure and overall energy efficiency;

  

(2) a schedule for implementation of such recommendations and identification and prioritization of specific projects;

(3) a financial and engineering plan for implementing and sustaining projects; and

(4) benchmarks for measuring progress toward implementation.

#### (e) Reports to Secretary

Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Secretary establishes the team and annually thereafter, the team shall submit to the Secretary a report detailing progress made in fulfilling its charge and in implementing the energy action plan.

#### (f) Annual Reports to Congress

Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary receives a report submitted by the team under subsection (e), the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a summary of the report of the team.

#### (g) Approval of Secretary Required

The energy action plan shall not be implemented until the Secretary approves the energy action plan.

(Pub. L. 113–235, §9, Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2133.)

#### Codification

Section is from the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015.