### §1746. Defense Acquisition University

(a) Defense Acquisition University Structure.—The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall establish and maintain a defense acquisition university structure to provide for—

(1) the professional educational development and training of the acquisition workforce; and

(2) research and analysis of defense acquisition policy issues from an academic perspective.

  

(b) Civilian Faculty Members.—(1) The Secretary of Defense may employ as many civilians as professors, instructors, and lecturers in the defense acquisition university structure as the Secretary considers necessary.

(2) The professors, instructors, and lecturers employed under paragraph (1) shall include individuals from civilian colleges or universities that are not owned or operated by the Federal Government, commercial learning and development organizations, industry, or federally funded research and development centers.

(3) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that—

(A) not later than September 1, 2021, not less than five full-time visiting professors employed under paragraph (1) are from civilian colleges or universities described under paragraph (2); and

(B) not later than September 1, 2022, not less than ten full-time visiting professors employed under paragraph (1) are from such civilian colleges or universities.

  

(4) The compensation of persons employed under this subsection shall be as prescribed by the Secretary.

(5) In this subsection, the term "defense acquisition university" includes the Defense Systems Management College.

(c) Curriculum Development.—The President of the Defense Acquisition University shall work with the relevant professional schools and degree-granting institutions of the Department of Defense and military departments, and with commercial training providers, to ensure that best practices are used in curriculum development to support acquisition workforce positions.

(d) Cooperative Research and Development Agreements.—(1) In engaging in research and development projects pursuant to subsection (a) of section 2358 of this title by a contract, cooperative agreement, or grant pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of such section, the Secretary may enter into such contract or cooperative agreement or award such grant through the Defense Acquisition University.

(2) The Defense Acquisition University shall be considered a Government-operated Federal laboratory for purposes of section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a).

(Added Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XII, §1202(a), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1653; amended Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title IX, §904(d)(1), Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1728; Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, §1503(a)(16), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 512; Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title X, §1048(b)(2), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1225; Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §877(c)(1), (2)(A), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4306; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title II, §214(b), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2048; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title VIII, §861(c), title IX, §902(23), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1516, 1545; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, §1081(a)(32), title XVIII, §1841(e)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3872, 4244.)

#### Amendment of Subsection (d)(1)

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1841(e)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4244, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, subsection (d)(1) of this section is amended by striking "section 2358" and inserting "section 4001". See 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (b)(3)(A). Pub. L. 116–283, §1081(a)(32), struck out the second semicolon before "and".

Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 116–283, §1841(e)(1), substituted "section 4001" for "section 2358".

**2019**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–92, §902(23), substituted "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment" for "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics" in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(2) to (5). Pub. L. 116–92, §861(c)(1), added pars. (2) and (3) and redesignated former pars. (2) and (3) as (4) and (5), respectively.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 116–92, §861(c)(2), inserted ", and with commercial training providers," after "military departments".

**2016**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 114–328 added subsec. (d).

**2011**—Pub. L. 111–383, §877(c)(2)(A), substituted "Defense Acquisition University" for "Defense acquisition university structure" in section catchline.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 111–383, §877(c)(1), added subsec. (c).

**2001**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 107–107 substituted "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics" for "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology" in introductory provisions.

**1996**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–106 struck out "(1)" before "The Secretary of Defense" and redesignated subpars. (A) and (B) as pars. (1) and (2), respectively.

**1993**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 103–160 substituted "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology" for "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition".

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by section 1841(e)(1) of Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XII, §1209(h)(1), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1667, provided that: "Subsection (b) of section 1746 of title 10, United States Code (as added by section 1202), shall take effect with respect to the Defense Systems Management College on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Nov. 5, 1990\]."

#### Training in Commercial Items Procurement

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, §850, Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1488, provided that:

"(a) Training.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 12, 2017\], the President of the Defense Acquisition University shall establish a comprehensive training program on part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. The training shall cover, at a minimum, the following topics:

"(1) The origin of part 12 and the congressional mandate to prefer commercial procurements.

"(2) The definition of a commercial item, with a particular focus on the 'of a type' concept.

"(3) Price analysis and negotiations.

"(4) Market research and analysis.

"(5) Independent cost estimates.

"(6) Parametric estimating methods.

"(7) Value analysis.

"(8) Best practices in pricing from commercial sector organizations, foreign government organizations, and other Federal, State, and local public sectors organizations.

"(9) Other topics on commercial procurements necessary to ensure a well-educated acquisition workforce.

"(b) Enrollments Goals.—The President of the Defense Acquisition University shall set goals for student enrollment for the comprehensive training program established under subsection (a).

"(c) Supporting Activities.—The Secretary of Defense shall, in support of the achievement of the goals of this section—

"(1) engage academic experts on research topics of interest to improve commercial item identification and pricing methodologies; and

"(2) facilitate exchange and interface opportunities between government personnel to increase awareness of best practices and challenges in commercial item identification and pricing.

"(d) Funding.—The Secretary of Defense shall use amounts available in the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund established under section 1705 of title 10, United States Code, to fund the comprehensive training program established under subsection (a)."

#### Training on Agile or Iterative Development Methods

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, §891, Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1509, provided that:

"(a) In General.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 12, 2017\], the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the President of the Defense Acquisition University, shall establish a training course at the Defense Acquisition University on agile or iterative development methods to provide training for personnel implementing and supporting the pilot programs required by sections 873 and 874 of this Act \[10 U.S.C. 2223a note, 10 U.S.C. 2302 note\].

"(b) Course Elements.—

"(1) In general.—The course shall be taught in residence at the Defense Acquisition University and shall include the following elements:

"(A) Training designed to instill a common understanding of all functional roles and dependencies involved in developing and producing a capability using agile or iterative development methods.

"(B) An exercise involving teams composed of personnel from pertinent functions and functional organizations engaged in developing an integrated agile or iterative development method for a specific program.

"(C) Instructors and content from non-governmental entities, as appropriate, to highlight commercial best practices in using an agile or iterative development method.

"(2) Course updates.—The Secretary shall ensure that the course is updated as needed, including through incorporating lessons learned from the implementation of the pilot programs required by sections 873 and 874 of this Act in subsequent versions of the course.

"(c) Course Attendance.—The course shall be—

"(1) available for certified acquisition personnel working on programs or projects using agile or iterative development methods; and

"(2) mandatory for personnel participating in the pilot programs required by sections 873 and 874 of this Act from the relevant organizations in each of the military departments and Defense Agencies, including organizations responsible for engineering, budgeting, contracting, test and evaluation, requirements validation, and certification and accreditation.

"(d) Agile Acquisition Support.—The Secretary and the senior acquisition executives in each of the military departments and Defense Agencies, in coordination with the Director of the Defense Digital Service, shall assign to offices supporting systems selected for participation in the pilot programs required by sections 873 and 874 of this Act a subject matter expert with knowledge of commercial agile acquisition methods and Department of Defense acquisition processes to provide assistance and to advise appropriate acquisition authorities of the expert's observations.

"(e) Agile Research Program.—The President of the Defense Acquisition University shall establish a research program to conduct research on and development of agile acquisition practices and tools best tailored to meet the mission needs of the Department of Defense.

"(f) Agile or Iterative Development Defined.—The term 'agile or iterative development', with respect to software—

"(1) means acquisition pursuant to a method for delivering multiple, rapid, incremental capabilities to the user for operational use, evaluation, and feedback not exclusively linked to any single, proprietary method or process; and

"(2) involves—

"(A) the incremental development and fielding of capabilities, commonly called 'spirals', 'spins', or 'sprints', which can be measured in a few weeks or months; and

"(B) continuous participation and collaboration by users, testers, and requirements authorities."

#### Contractor Incentives To Achieve Savings and Improve Mission Performance

Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §832, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2283, provided that: "Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 23, 2016\], the Defense Acquisition University shall develop and implement a training program for Department of Defense acquisition personnel on fixed-priced incentive fee contracts, public-private partnerships, performance-based contracting, and other authorities in law and regulation designed to give incentives to contractors to achieve long-term savings and improve administrative practices and mission performance."

#### Establishment of Initial Defense Acquisition University Structure

Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XII, §1205, Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1658, as amended by Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title X, §1073(d)(4)(A), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1905, provided that, not later than Oct. 1, 1991, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, was to prescribe regulations for the initial structure for a defense acquisition university under this section and to prescribe and submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives an implementation plan, including a charter, for the university structure, and not later than Aug. 1, 1992, the Secretary was to carry out the implementation plan.