### §2301. Recruiting campaigns

The Secretary shall initiate and carry forward an intensified voluntary enlistment campaign to obtain the required personnel strengths.

(Added Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, §7(a), 70A Stat. 620, §350; renumbered §2301, Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §113(b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4221.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                                                                                   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 350               | 34:187 (as made applicable to Coast Guard by 34:189).  34:189 (as applicable to 34:187).  50 App.:470 (last sentence). | Oct. 6, 1945, ch. 393, §§2 (as made applicable to Coast Guard by §13), 13 (as applicable to §2), 59 Stat. 538, 542.  June 24, 1948, ch. 625, §20 (last sentence), 62 Stat. 627; Sept. 27, 1950, ch. 1059, §1(14), 64 Stat. 1074. |

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282 renumbered section 350 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Partnership Program To Diversify Coast Guard

Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, §11246, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4046, provided that:

"(a) Establishment.—The Commandant \[of the Coast Guard\] shall establish a program for the purpose of increasing the number of individuals in the enlisted ranks of the Coast Guard who are—

"(1) underrepresented minorities; or

"(2) from rural areas.

"(b) Partnerships.—In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the Commandant shall—

"(1) seek to enter into 1 or more partnerships with eligible institutions—

"(A) to increase the visibility of Coast Guard careers;

"(B) to promote curriculum development—

"(i) to enable acceptance into the Coast Guard; and

"(ii) to improve success on relevant exams, such as the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery; and

"(C) to provide mentoring for students entering and beginning Coast Guard careers; and

"(2) enter into a partnership with an existing Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps for the purpose of promoting Coast Guard careers.

"(c) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) Eligible institution.—The term 'eligible institution' means an institution—

"(A) that is—

"(i) an institution of higher education (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)); or

"(ii) a junior or community college (as such term is defined in section 312 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1058)\[)\]; and

"(B) that is—

"(i) a part B institution (as such term is defined in section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1061));

"(ii) a Tribal College or University (as such term is defined in section 316(b) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)));

"(iii) a Hispanic-serving institution (as such term is defined in section 502 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1101a));

"(iv) an Alaska Native-serving institution or a Native Hawaiian-serving institution (as such term is defined in section 317(b) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1059d(b)));

"(v) a Predominantly Black institution (as such term is defined in section 371(c) of that Act (20 U.S.C. 1067q(c)));

"(vi) an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution (as defined in section 320(b) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1059g(b))); or

"(vii) a Native American-serving nontribal institution (as defined in section 319(b) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1059f(b)).

"(2) Rural area.—The term 'rural area' means an area that is outside of an urbanized area, as determined by the Bureau of the Census."