### §320301. National monuments

(a) Presidential Declaration.—The President may, in the President's discretion, declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific interest that are situated on land owned or controlled by the Federal Government to be national monuments.

(b) Reservation of Land.—The President may reserve parcels of land as a part of the national monuments. The limits of the parcels shall be confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected.

(c) Relinquishment to Federal Government.—When an object is situated on a parcel covered by a bona fide unperfected claim or held in private ownership, the parcel, or so much of the parcel as may be necessary for the proper care and management of the object, may be relinquished to the Federal Government and the Secretary may accept the relinquishment of the parcel on behalf of the Federal Government.

(d) Limitation on Extension or Establishment of National Monuments in Wyoming.—No extension or establishment of national monuments in Wyoming may be undertaken except by express authorization of Congress.

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3259.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section*    | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                        |
| --------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 320301(a) through (c) | 16 U.S.C. 431        | June 8, 1906, ch. 3060, §2, 34 Stat. 225.                                           |
| 320301(d)             | 16 U.S.C. 431a       | Sept. 14, 1950, ch. 950, §1 (proviso relating to national monuments), 64 Stat. 849. |

In subsection (c), the word "parcel" is substituted for "tract" for consistency in this section.

In subsection (d), the word "further" is omitted as obsolete.