### §2460. Definition of depot-level maintenance and repair

(a) In General.—In this chapter, the term "depot-level maintenance and repair" means (except as provided in subsection (b)) material maintenance or repair requiring the overhaul, upgrading, or rebuilding of parts, assemblies, or subassemblies, and the testing and reclamation of equipment as necessary, regardless of the source of funds for the maintenance or repair or the location at which the maintenance or repair is performed. The term includes (1) all aspects of software maintenance classified by the Department of Defense as of July 1, 1995, as depot-level maintenance and repair, and (2) interim contractor support or contractor logistics support (or any similar contractor support), to the extent that such support is for the performance of services described in the preceding sentence.

(b) Exceptions.—(1) The term does not include the procurement of major modifications or upgrades of weapon systems that are designed to improve program performance or the nuclear refueling or defueling of an aircraft carrier and any concurrent complex overhaul. A major upgrade program covered by this exception could continue to be performed by private or public sector activities.

(2) The term also does not include the procurement of parts for safety modifications. However, the term does include the installation of parts for that purpose.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title III, §322(b)(1), (c), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1694, 1695.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section 322(b)(1) of Pub. L. 112–239, cited as a credit to this section, revived section 2460 of this title as in effect the day before the date of the enactment of Pub. L. 112–81, Dec. 31, 2011. See Prior Provisions note below.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2460, added Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title III, §355(a), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1693; amended Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title III, §341, Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 1973; Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title III, §321, Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1361, defined "depot-level maintenance and repair" for this chapter prior to repeal by Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title III, §322(a)(1), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1694.

#### Amendments

**2013**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 112–239, §322(c), substituted "or the nuclear refueling or defueling of an aircraft carrier and any concurrent complex overhaul" for "or the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 112–239 effective Dec. 31, 2011, immediately after enactment of Pub. L. 112–81, see section 322(f) of Pub. L. 112–239, set out as an Effective Date of 2013 Amendment note under section 4251 of this title.

#### Requirement for Military Department Inter-Service Depot Maintenance

Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title III, §358, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1323, provided that:

"(a) Joint Process for Technical Compliance and Quality Control.—If the Secretary of a military department transfers any maintenance action on a platform to a depot under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of another military department, the two Secretaries shall develop and implement a process to ensure the technical compliance and quality control for the work performed.

"(b) Requirements.—A process developed under subsection (a) shall include the following requirements—

"(1) The Secretary of the military department with jurisdiction over the depot to which the maintenance action is transferred shall—

"(A) ensure that the technical specifications, requirements, and standards for work to be performed are provided to such action or depot; and

"(B) implement procedures to ensure that completed work complies with such specifications, requirements and standards.

"(2) The Secretary who transfers the maintenance activity or depot shall ensure that—

"(A) the technical specifications and requirements are clearly understood; and

"(B) the work performed is completed to the technical specifications, requirements, and standards prescribed under paragraph (1), and that the Secretary of the military department with jurisdiction over the depot is informed of any shortcoming or discrepancy.

"(c) Reports.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 20, 2019\], the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the congressional defense committees \[Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives\] a report containing a certification that sufficient policy and procedures are in place to ensure quality control when the depot or maintenance activities of one military department support another. The report shall include a description of known shortfalls in existing policies and procedures and actions the Department of Defense is taking to address such shortfalls."