### §18791. Definitions

In this part:

#### (1) Priority State

The term "priority State" means a State that—

(A) is eligible for funding under the State Energy Program; and

(B)(i) is among the 15 States with the highest annual per-capita combined residential and commercial sector energy consumption, as most recently reported by the Energy Information Administration; or

(ii) is among the 15 States with the highest annual per-capita energy-related carbon dioxide emissions by State, as most recently reported by the Energy Information Administration.

#### (2) Program

The term "program" means the program established under section 18792(a) of this title.

#### (3) State

The term "State" means a State (as defined in section 6202 of this title), acting through a State energy office.

#### (4) State Energy Program

The term "State Energy Program" means the State Energy Program established under part D of title III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.).

(Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title V, §40501, Nov. 15, 2021, 135 Stat. 1050.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Energy Policy and Conservation Act, referred to in par. (4), is Pub. L. 94–163, Dec. 22, 1975, 89 Stat. 871. Part D of title III of the Act is classified generally to part B (§6321 et seq.) of subchapter III of chapter 77 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6201 of this title and Tables.. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6201 of this title and Tables.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Wage Rate Requirements

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of Pub. L. 117–58, including authority of Secretary of Labor, see section 18851 of this title.