### §9521. Definitions

In this part:

#### (1) Appropriate congressional committees

The term "appropriate congressional committees" means—

(A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives.

#### (2) Good

The term "good" has the meaning given that term in section 4618 [1](#9521_1_target) of title 50 (as continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)).

#### (3) International financial institution

The term "international financial institution" has the meaning given that term in section 262r(c) of this title.

#### (4) Knowingly

The term "knowingly", with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

#### (5) Person

The term "person" means an individual or entity.

#### (6) United States person

The term "United States person" means—

(A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States; or

(B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.

(Pub. L. 115–44, title II, §221, Aug. 2, 2017, 131 Stat. 906.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in text, is part 2 (§§221–238) of subtitle A of title II of Pub. L. 115–44, which enacted this part and sections 8909 and 8910 of this title and amended sections 8901, 8907, 8908, 8923, and 8924 of this title. For complete classification of part 2 to the Code, see Tables.

Section 4618 of title 50, referred to in par. (2), was repealed by Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, §1766(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2232.

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, referred to in par. (2), is title II of Pub. L. 95–223, Dec. 28, 1977, 91 Stat. 1626, which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§1701 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 50 and Tables.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Imposition of Sanctions With Respect to the Sale, Supply, or Transfer of Gold to or From Russia

Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, §5590, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3380, provided that:

"(a) Identification.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 23, 2022\], and periodically as necessary thereafter, the President—

"(1) shall submit to Congress a report identifying foreign persons that knowingly participated in a significant transaction—

"(A) for the sale, supply, or transfer (including transportation) of gold, directly or indirectly, to or from the Russian Federation or the Government of the Russian Federation, including from reserves of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation held outside the Russian Federation; or

"(B) that otherwise involved gold in which the Government of the Russian Federation had any interest; and

"(2) shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (b)(1) with respect to each such person; and

"(3) may impose the sanctions described in subsection (b)(2) with respect to any such person that is an alien.

"(b) Sanctions Described.—The sanctions described in this subsection are the following:

"(1) Blocking of property.—The exercise of all powers granted to the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in property of a foreign person identified in the report required by subsection (a)(1) if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person.

"(2) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.—

"(A) Visas, admission, or parole.—An alien described in subsection (a)(1) is—

"(i) inadmissible to the United States;

"(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to enter the United States; and

"(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into the United States or to receive any other benefit under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

"(B) Current visas revoked.—

"(i) In general.—The issuing consular officer, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Homeland Security (or a designee of one of such Secretaries) shall, in accordance with section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), revoke any visa or other entry documentation issued to an alien described in subsection (a)(1).

"(ii) Immediate effect.—The revocation under clause (i) of a visa or other entry documentation issued to an alien shall—

     "(I) take effect immediately; and

     "(II) automatically cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in the alien's possession.

"(c) Implementation; Penalties.—

"(1) Implementation.—The President may exercise all authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this section.

"(2) Penalties.—A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.

"(d) National Interest Waiver.—The President may waive the imposition of sanctions under this section with respect to a person if the President—

"(1) determines that such a waiver is in the national interests of the United States; and

"(2) submits to Congress a notification of the waiver and the reasons for the waiver.

"(e) Termination.—

"(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the requirement to impose sanctions under this section, and any sanctions imposed under this section, shall terminate on the earlier of—

"(A) the date that is 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act; or

"(B) the date that is 30 days after the date on which the President certifies to Congress that—

"(i) the Government of the Russian Federation has ceased its destabilizing activities with respect to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine; and

"(ii) such termination in the national interests of the United States.

"(2) Transition rules.—

"(A) Continuation of certain authorities.—Any authorities exercised before the termination date under paragraph (1) to impose sanctions with respect to a foreign person under this section may continue to be exercised on and after that date if the President determines that the continuation of those authorities is in the national interests of the United States.

"(B) Application to ongoing investigations.—The termination date under paragraph (1) shall not apply to any investigation of a civil or criminal violation of this section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this section, or the imposition of a civil or criminal penalty for such a violation, if—

"(i) the violation occurred before the termination date; or

"(ii) the person involved in the violation continues to be subject to sanctions pursuant to subparagraph (A).

"(f) Exceptions.—

"(1) Exceptions for authorized intelligence and law enforcement and national security activities.—This section shall not apply with respect to activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized intelligence, law enforcement, or national security activities of the United States.

"(2) Exception to comply with international agreements.—Sanctions under subsection (b)(2) may not apply with respect to the admission of an alien to the United States if such admission is necessary to comply with the obligations of the United States under the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United States, or the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or other international obligations.

"(3) Humanitarian exemption.—The President shall not impose sanctions under this section with respect to any person for conducting or facilitating a transaction for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices or for the provision of humanitarian assistance.

"(4) Exception relating to importation of goods.—

"(A) In general.—The requirement or authority to impose sanctions under this section shall not include the authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.

"(B) Good defined.—In this paragraph, the term 'good' means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply, or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.

"(g) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) The terms 'admission', 'admitted', 'alien', and 'lawfully admitted for permanent residence' have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).

"(2) The term 'foreign person' means an individual or entity that is not a United States person.

"(3) The term 'knowingly', with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

"(4) The term 'United States person' means—

"(A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States;

"(B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity; or

"(C) any person in the United States."

  

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 13849. Authorizing the Implementation of Certain Sanctions Set Forth in the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act

Ex. Ord. No. 13849, Sept. 20, 2018, 83 F.R. 48195, provided:

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.), the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Public Law 115–44) (CAATSA), the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–272), as amended \[22 U.S.C. 8921 et seq.\] (UFSA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergencies declared in Executive Order 13660 of March 6, 2014, as expanded in scope and relied upon for additional steps taken in subsequent Executive Orders, and Executive Order 13694 of April 1, 2015, as relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order 13757 of December 28, 2016 \[listed in a table under 50 U.S.C. 1701\], hereby order:

Section 1. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of State or the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to sections 224(a)(2), 231(a), 232(a), or 233(a) of CAATSA \[22 U.S.C. 9524(a)(2), 9525(a), 9526(a), or 9527(a)\] and has selected from section 235 of CAATSA \[22 U.S.C. 9529\] any of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury:

(i) prohibit any United States financial institution from making loans or providing credits to the sanctioned person totaling more than $10,000,000 in any 12-month period, unless the person is engaged in activities to relieve human suffering and the loans or credits are provided for such activities;

(ii) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and in which the sanctioned person has any interest;

(iii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions, or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;

(iv) block all property and interests in property of the sanctioned person that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;

(v) prohibit any United States person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the sanctioned person; or

(vi) impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)–(a)(v) of this section, as selected by the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a)(iv) of this section include:

(i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any sanctioned person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such sanctioned person.

(c) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order \[Sept. 20, 2018\].

Sec. 2. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of State or the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to sections 224(a)(2), 231(a), 232(a), or 233(a) of CAATSA and has selected from section 235 of CAATSA any of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the heads of relevant departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate, shall ensure that the following actions are taken where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury:

(i) The Export-Import Bank shall deny approval of the issuance of any guarantee, insurance, extension of credit, or participation in an extension of credit in connection with the export of any goods or services to the sanctioned person;

(ii) Departments and agencies shall not issue any specific license or grant any other specific permission or authority under any statute that requires the prior review or approval of the United States Government as a condition for the export or reexport of goods or technology to the sanctioned person;

(iii) The United States executive director of each international financial institution shall use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose any loan from the international financial institution that would benefit the sanctioned person;

(iv) With respect to a sanctioned person that is a financial institution: the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall not designate, or permit the continuation of any prior designation of, the sanctioned person as a primary dealer in United States Government debt instruments; and departments and agencies shall prevent the sanctioned person from serving as an agent of the United States Government or serving as a repository for United States Government funds;

(v) Departments and agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person;

(vi) The Secretary of State shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall exclude from the United States, any alien that the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury determines is a corporate officer or principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, the sanctioned person by treating the person as covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions) \[8 U.S.C. 1182 note\]; or

(vii) The heads of the relevant departments and agencies, as appropriate, shall impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)–(a)(vi) of this section, as selected by the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury.

(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

Sec. 3. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of State or the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to section 224(a)(3) of CAATSA \[22 U.S.C. 9524(a)(3)\] or sections 4(a) or 4(b) of UFSA \[22 U.S.C. 8923(a), (b)\] and has selected from section 4(c) of UFSA \[22 U.S.C. 8923(c)\] any of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury:

(i) block all property and interests in property of the sanctioned person that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;

(ii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions, or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;

(iii) prohibit any United States person from transacting in, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in certain debt or equity of the sanctioned person, in accordance with section 4(c)(7) of UFSA; or

(iv) impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)–(a)(iii) of this section, as selected by the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury.

(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a)(i) of this section include:

(i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any sanctioned person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

(ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such sanctioned person.

(c) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

Sec. 4. (a) When the President, or the Secretary of State or the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined that sanctions shall be imposed on a person pursuant to section 224(a)(3) of CAATSA or sections 4(a) or 4(b) of UFSA and has selected from section 4(c) of UFSA any of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the heads of relevant departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate, shall ensure that the following actions are taken where necessary to implement the sanctions selected and maintained by the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury:

(i) The Export-Import Bank shall deny approval of the issuance of any guarantee, insurance, extension of credit, or participation in an extension of credit in connection with the export of any goods or services to the sanctioned person;

(ii) Departments and agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person;

(iii) Departments and agencies shall prohibit the exportation, or provision by sale, lease or loan, grant, or other means, directly or indirectly, of any defense article or defense service to the sanctioned person and shall not issue any license or other approval to the sanctioned person under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778);

(iv) Departments and agencies shall not issue any license, and shall suspend any license, for the transfer to the sanctioned person of any item the export of which is controlled under the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (subtitle B of title XVII of Public Law 115–232) \[50 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.\], or the Export Administration Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations;

(v) The Secretary of State shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall exclude from the United States, the sanctioned person by treating the person as covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693; or

(vi) The heads of the relevant departments and agencies, as appropriate, shall impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)–(a)(v) of this section, as selected by the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury.

(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.

Sec. 5. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

Sec. 6. I hereby determine that, to the extent section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) may apply, the making of donations of the types of articles specified in such section by, to, or for the benefit of any sanctioned person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergencies declared in Executive Orders 13660 and 13694 \[listed in a table under 50 U.S.C. 1701\], and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by sections 1(a)(iv) and 3(a)(i) of this order.

Sec. 7. For the purposes of this order:

(a) the term "person" means an individual or entity;

(b) the term "entity" means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(c) the term "United States person" means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person within the United States;

(d) the term "financial institution" includes: (i) a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1))), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7))); (ii) a credit union; (iii) a securities firm, including a broker or dealer; (iv) an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and (v) any other company that provides financial services;

(e) the term "international financial institution" has the meaning given that term in section 1701(c) of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c));

(f) the term "United States financial institution" means a financial institution (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States or located in the United States; and

(g) the term "sanctioned person" means a person that the President, or the Secretary of State or the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, has determined is a person on whom sanctions shall be imposed pursuant to sections 224(a)(2), 224(a)(3), 231(a), 232(a), or 233(a) of CAATSA or sections 4(a) or 4(b) of UFSA and on whom the President, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of the Treasury has imposed any of the sanctions in section 235 of CAATSA or section 4(c) of UFSA.

Sec. 8. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken with respect to such property or interests in property pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergencies declared in Executive Orders 13660 and 13694, there need be no prior notice of an action taken pursuant to this order with respect to such property or interests in property.

Sec. 9. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens on whom sanctions described in sections 1(a)(iv) or 3(a)(i) of this order have been imposed would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693.

Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, and sections 224(a)(2), 224(a)(3), 231(a), 231(e), 232(a), 233(a), and 235 of CAATSA and sections 4(a)–(c) and 4(h) of UFSA with respect to powers to impose sanctions, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States Government shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.

Sec. 11. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

Donald J. Trump.      

[1 See References in Text note below.](#9521_1)