### §9525. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons engaging in transactions with the intelligence or defense sectors of the Government of the Russian Federation

#### (a) In general

On and after the date that is 180 days after August 2, 2017, the President shall impose five or more of the sanctions described in section 9529 of this title with respect to a person the President determines knowingly, on or after August 2, 2017, engages in a significant transaction with a person that is part of, or operates for or on behalf of, the defense or intelligence sectors of the Government of the Russian Federation, including the Main Intelligence Agency of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation or the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation.

#### (b) Application of new sanctions

The President may waive the initial application of sanctions under subsection (a) with respect to a person only if the President submits to the appropriate congressional committees—

(1) a written determination that the waiver—

(A) is in the vital national security interests of the United States; or

(B) will further the enforcement of this chapter; and

  

(2) a certification that the Government of the Russian Federation has made significant efforts to reduce the number and intensity of cyber intrusions conducted by that Government.

#### (c) Delay of imposition of sanctions

The President may delay the imposition of sanctions under subsection (a) with respect to a person if the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees, not less frequently than every 180 days while the delay is in effect, that the person is substantially reducing the number of significant transactions described in subsection (a) in which that person engages.

#### (d) Requirement to issue guidance

Not later than 60 days after August 2, 2017, the President shall issue regulations or other guidance to specify the persons that are part of, or operate for or on behalf of, the defense and intelligence sectors of the Government of the Russian Federation.

#### (e) Penalties

A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of subsection (a) or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out subsection (a) shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 1705 of title 50 to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.

(Pub. L. 115–44, title II, §231, Aug. 2, 2017, 131 Stat. 916.)

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(B), was in the original "this title", meaning title II of Pub. L. 115–44, Aug. 2, 2017, 131 Stat. 898, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see section 201 of Pub. L. 115–44, set out as a Short Title note under section 9501 of this title and Tables.