### §3701. Definitions

(a) [1](#3701_1_target) Definitions.—In this chapter:

(1) Cost or pricing data.—The term "cost or pricing data" means all facts that, as of the date of agreement on the price of a contract (or the price of a contract modification), or, if applicable consistent with section 3706(a)(2) of this title, another date agreed upon between the parties, a prudent buyer or seller would reasonably expect to affect price negotiations significantly. Such term does not include information that is judgmental, but does include the factual information from which a judgment was derived.

(2) Subcontract.—The term "subcontract" includes a transfer of commercial products or commercial services between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of a contractor or a subcontractor.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1831(a), (b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4209.)

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1831(b), redesignated subsec. (h) of section 2306a of this title as subsec. (a) of this section and substituted "this chapter" for "this section" in introductory provisions and "section 3706(a)(2) of this title" for "subsection (e)(1)(B)" in par. (1).

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.

[1 So in original. There is no subsec. (b).](#3701_1)