### §3001. Definitions

In this chapter:

#### (1) Covered land

The term "covered land" means land that is—

(A) Federal lands administered by the Secretary concerned; and

(B) not excluded from the development of geothermal, solar, or wind energy under—

(i) a land use plan; or

(ii) other Federal law.

#### (2) Federal land

The term "Federal land" means—

(A) public land as defined by section 103 of the Federal Land Policy Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702); or

(B) land of the National Forest System (as defined in section 1609(a) of title 16).

#### (3) Land use plan

The term "land use plan" means—

(A) for public land, a land use plan established under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and

(B) for National Forest System land, a land management plan approved, amended, or revised under section 1604 of title 16.

#### (4) Eligible project

The term "eligible project" means a project carried out on covered land that uses wind, solar, or geothermal energy to generate energy.

#### (5) Secretary

The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Interior.

(Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, §3101, Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2513.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this subtitle", meaning subtitle B (§§3101–3106) of title III of div. Z of Pub. L. 116–260, Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2513, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of subtitle B to the Code, see Tables.

The Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in par. (3)(A), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§1701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of this title and Tables.