### §9096. Signature authority

#### (a) In general

In carrying out this title and title II and amendments made by those titles, if the Secretary approves a document, the Secretary shall not subsequently determine the document is inadequate or invalid because of the lack of authority of any person signing the document on behalf of the applicant or any other individual, entity, general partnership, or joint venture, or the documents relied upon were determined inadequate or invalid, unless the person signing the program document knowingly and willfully falsified the evidence of signature authority or a signature.

#### (b) Affirmation

#### (1) In general

Nothing in this section prohibits the Secretary from asking a proper party to affirm any document that otherwise would be considered approved under subsection (a).

#### (2) No retroactive effect

A denial of benefits based on a lack of affirmation under paragraph (1) shall not be retroactive with respect to third-party producers who were not the subject of the erroneous representation of authority, if the third-party producers—

(A) relied on the prior approval by the Secretary of the documents in good faith; and

(B) substantively complied with all program requirements.

(Pub. L. 113–79, title I, §1613, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 710.)

#### References in Text

This title and title II, referred to in text, are titles I and II of Pub. L. 113–79, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 649, known as the Agricultural Act of 2014. Title I of the Act is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9001 of this title and Tables.