### §2404. Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs

#### (a) In general

There is in the Administration a Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs, who is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

#### (b) Duties

Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Administrator, the Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Administrator may prescribe, including the following:

(1) Supporting the deterrence of strategic attacks by maintaining and enhancing the performance, reliability, and security of the United States nuclear weapons stockpile, including the ability to design, produce, and test as necessary to meet national security requirements.

(2) Directing, managing, and overseeing the nuclear weapons production facilities and the national security laboratories.

(Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, §3214, Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 959; Pub. L. 107–107, div. C, title XXXI, §3142, Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1370; Pub. L. 118–31, div. C, title XXXI, §3112(a), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 788; Pub. L. 118–159, div. C, title XXXI, §3111(a)(3), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2293.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2024**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 118–159 added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: "Maintaining and enhancing the safety, reliability, and performance of the United States nuclear weapons stockpile, including the ability to design, produce, and test, in order to meet national security requirements."

**2023**—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 118–31 struck out par. (3) which read as follows: "Directing, managing, and overseeing assets to respond to incidents involving nuclear weapons and materials."

**2001**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 107–107 struck out heading and text of subsec. (c). Text read as follows: "The head of each national security laboratory and nuclear weapons production facility shall, consistent with applicable contractual obligations, report to the Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs."

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 1, 2000, see section 3299 of Pub. L. 106–65, set out as a note under section 2401 of this title.