### §254c–15. Rural emergency medical service training and equipment assistance program

#### (a) Grants

The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration (referred to in this section as the "Secretary") shall award grants to eligible entities to enable such entities to provide for improved emergency medical services in rural areas or to residents of rural areas.

#### (b) Eligibility; application

To be eligible to receive grant under this section, an entity shall—

(1) be—

(A) an emergency medical services agency operated by a local or tribal government (including fire-based and non-fire based); or

(B) an emergency medical services agency that is described in section 501(c) of title 26 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of title 26; and

  

(2) submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

#### (c) Use of funds

An entity—

(1) shall use amounts received through a grant under subsection (a) to—

(A) train emergency medical services personnel as appropriate to obtain and maintain licenses and certifications relevant to service in an emergency medical services agency described in subsection (b)(1);

(B) conduct courses that qualify graduates to serve in an emergency medical services agency described in subsection (b)(1) in accordance with State and local requirements;

(C) fund specific training to meet Federal or State licensing or certification requirements; and

(D) acquire emergency medical services equipment; and

  

(2) may use amounts received through a grant under subsection (a) to—

(A) recruit and retain emergency medical services personnel, which may include volunteer personnel;

(B) develop new ways to educate emergency health care providers through the use of technology-enhanced educational methods; or

(C) acquire personal protective equipment for emergency medical services personnel as required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

#### (d) Grant amounts

Each grant awarded under this section shall be in an amount not to exceed $200,000.

#### (e) Definitions

In this section:

(1) The term "emergency medical services"—

(A) means resources used by a public or private nonprofit licensed entity to deliver medical care outside of a medical facility under emergency conditions that occur as a result of the condition of the patient; and

(B) includes services delivered (either on a compensated or volunteer basis) by an emergency medical services provider or other provider that is licensed or certified by the State involved as an emergency medical technician, a paramedic, or an equivalent professional (as determined by the State).

  

(2) The term "rural area" means—

(A) a nonmetropolitan statistical area;

(B) an area designated as a rural area by any law or regulation of a State; or

(C) a rural census tract of a metropolitan statistical area (as determined under the most recent rural urban commuting area code as set forth by the Office of Management and Budget).

#### (f) Matching requirement

The Secretary may not award a grant under this section to an entity unless the entity agrees that the entity will make available (directly or through contributions from other public or private entities) non-Federal contributions toward the activities to be carried out under the grant in an amount equal to 10 percent of the amount received under the grant.

#### (g) Authorization of appropriations

#### (1) In general

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.

#### (2) Administrative costs

The Secretary may use not more than 10 percent of the amount appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year for the administrative expenses of carrying out this section.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, §330J, as added Pub. L. 107–251, title II, §221, Oct. 26, 2002, 116 Stat. 1638; amended Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, §12608, Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 5008.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–334, §12608(1), substituted "in rural areas or to residents of rural areas" for "in rural areas".

Subsecs. (b) to (f). Pub. L. 115–334, §12608(2), added subsecs. (b) to (f) and struck out former subsecs. (b) to (f) which related to eligibility for grants, use of funds, preference for certain grant applications, matching requirement, and definition of "emergency medical services", respectively.

Subsec. (g)(1). Pub. L. 115–334, §12608(3), substituted "2019 through 2023" for "2002 through 2006".