### §8901. Definitions

In this chapter:

#### (1) Alien

The term "alien" has the meaning given that term in section 1101(a) of title 8.

#### (2) Appropriate congressional committees

The term "appropriate congressional committees" means—

(A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Appropriations, and the majority leader and minority leader of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Financial Services [1](#8901_1_target) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Speaker and minority leader of the House of Representatives.

#### (3) Materially assisted

The term "materially assisted" means the provision of assistance that is significant and of a kind directly relevant to acts described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 8907(a) of this title or acts described in section 8908(a)(1) of this title.

#### (4) United States person

The term "United States person" means—

(A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States; or

(B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.

(Pub. L. 113–95, §2, Apr. 3, 2014, 128 Stat. 1088; Pub. L. 115–44, title II, §228(b), Aug. 2, 2017, 131 Stat. 914.)

#### Amendments

**2017**—Par. (2)(A). Pub. L. 115–44, §228(b)(1), inserted "the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs," before "the Committee on Foreign Relations".

Par. (2)(B). Pub. L. 115–44, §228(b)(2), inserted "the Committee on Financial Services" before "the Committee on Foreign Affairs".

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 113–95, §1, Apr. 3, 2014, 128 Stat. 1088, provided that: "This Act \[enacting this chapter\] may be cited as the 'Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014'."

[1 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma.](#8901_1)