### §2634. Motor vehicles: transportation or storage for members on change of permanent station or extended deployment

(a) When a member of an armed force is ordered to make a change of permanent station, one motor vehicle that is owned or leased by the member (or a dependent of the member) and is for the personal use of the member or his dependents may, unless a motor vehicle owned or leased by him (or a dependent of his) was transported in advance of that change of permanent station under section 476(h) of title 37, be transported, at the expense of the United States, to his new station or such other place as the Secretary concerned may authorize—

(1) on a vessel owned, leased, or chartered by the United States;

(2) by privately owned American shipping services;

(3) by foreign-flag shipping services if shipping services described in clauses (1) and (2) are not reasonably available; or

(4) by other surface transportation if such means of transport does not exceed the cost to the United States of other authorized means.

  

When the Secretary concerned determines that a replacement for that motor vehicle is necessary for reasons beyond the control of the member and is in the interest of the United States, and he approves the transportation in advance, one additional motor vehicle of the member (or a dependent of the member) may be so transported.

(b)(1) When a member receives a vehicle storage qualifying order, the member may elect to have a motor vehicle described in subsection (a) stored at the expense of the United States at a location approved by the Secretary concerned. In the case of a vehicle storage qualifying order that is to make a change of permanent station, such storage is in lieu of transportation authorized by subsection (a).

(2) In this subsection, the term “vehicle storage qualifying order” means any of the following:

(A) An order to make a change of permanent station to a foreign country in a case in which the laws, regulations, or other restrictions imposed by the foreign country or by the United States either—

(i) preclude entry of a motor vehicle described in subsection (a) into that country; or

(ii) would require extensive modification of the vehicle as a condition to entry.

  

(B) An order to make a change of permanent station to a nonforeign area outside the continental United States in a case in which the laws, regulations, or other restrictions imposed by that area or by the United States either—

(i) preclude entry of a motor vehicle described in subsection (a) into that area; or

(ii) would require extensive modification of the vehicle as a condition to entry.

  

(C) An order under which a member is transferred or assigned in connection with a contingency operation to duty at a location other than the permanent station of the member for a period of more than 30 consecutive days but which is not considered a change of permanent station.

  

(3) Authorized expenses under this subsection include costs associated with the delivery of the motor vehicle for storage and removal of the vehicle for delivery to a destination approved by the Secretary concerned.

(4) Storage costs payable under this subsection may be paid in advance.

(c) When there has been a shipping error, or when orders directing a change of permanent station have been canceled, revoked, or modified after receipt by the member, a motor vehicle transported pursuant to this section may also be reshipped or transshipped in accordance with this section.

(d) When the Secretary concerned makes a determination under section 476(j) of title 37 that the dependents of a member on a permanent change of station are unable to accompany the member to an overseas duty station because of unexpected and uncontrollable circumstances, and the member shipped a motor vehicle pursuant to this section in anticipation of a dependent accompanying the member to the new duty station, the member may reship or transship such motor vehicle in accordance with this section.

(e) The Secretary of Defense (and the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy) may prescribe regulations limiting those leased motor vehicles that may be transported pursuant to this section based upon the length of the lease and other terms and conditions of the lease that the Secretary considers appropriate.

(f) No carrier, port agent, warehouseman, freight forwarder, or other person involved in the transportation of property may have any lien on, or hold, impound, or otherwise interfere with, the movement of a motor vehicle being transported under this section.

(g) If a motor vehicle of a member (or a dependent of the member) that is transported at the expense of the United States under this section does not arrive at the authorized destination of the vehicle by the designated delivery date, the Secretary concerned shall reimburse the member for expenses incurred after that date to rent a motor vehicle for the member's use, or for the use of the dependent for whom the delayed vehicle was transported. The amount reimbursed may not exceed $30 per day, and the rental period for which reimbursement may be provided expires after 7 days or on the date on which the delayed vehicle arrives at the authorized destination (whichever occurs first).

(h) In the case of a member's change of permanent station described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (i)(1), the Secretary concerned may authorize the member to arrange for the shipment of the motor vehicle in lieu of transportation at the expense of the United States under this section. The Secretary concerned may pay the member a monetary allowance in lieu of transportation, as established under section 474(d)(1) of title 37, and the member shall be responsible for any transportation costs in excess of such allowance.

(i) In this section:

(1) The term “change of permanent station” means the transfer or assignment of a member of the armed forces from a permanent station inside the continental United States to a permanent station outside the continental United States or from a permanent station outside the continental United States to another permanent station. It also includes the following:

(A) An authorized change in home port of a vessel.

(B) A transfer or assignment between two permanent stations in the continental United States when—

(i) the member cannot, because of injury or the conditions of the order, drive the motor vehicle between the permanent duty stations; or

(ii) the Secretary concerned determines that it is advantageous and cost-effective to the United States for one motor vehicle of the member to be transported between the permanent duty stations.

  

(2) The term “continental United States” does not include Alaska.

(3) The term “nonforeign area outside the continental United States” means any of the following: the States of Alaska and Hawaii, the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession of the United States.

(Added Pub. L. 87–651, title I, §111(b), Sept. 7, 1962, 76 Stat. 510; amended Pub. L. 88–431, §1(b), Aug. 14, 1964, 78 Stat. 439; Pub. L. 89–101, §1(1), July 30, 1965, 79 Stat. 425; Pub. L. 93–548, §§1, 2, Dec. 26, 1974, 88 Stat. 1743; Pub. L. 97–60, title II, §202, Oct. 14, 1981, 95 Stat. 1005; Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title VI, §§611, 620(b)(2), Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3878, 3883; Pub. L. 100–26, §7(j)(6), Apr. 21, 1987, 101 Stat. 283; Pub. L. 100–180, div. A, title VI, §616(a), Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1096; Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title VI, §622(b), Oct. 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 2422; Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title VI, §642(a)(2), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 368; Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title III, §368(a)(1), (2)(A), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2497; Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title VI, §§631(b)(2), 653(a), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2044, 2051; Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title V, §594(a), (b), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1126; Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, §1704(b)(1), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2314; Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title V, §575(a), (b), Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2558, 2559; Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title VI, §631(a), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1508; Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VI, §631(f)(4)(A), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1465; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, §1076(a)(9), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1948.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes

The new section 2634 of title 10 combines sections 4748, 6157, and 9748 of this title and section 471a of title 14 (which are being repealed), and reflects the Act of May 28, 1956, ch. 325 (46 U.S.C. 1241(c)).

#### Amendments

**2013**—Subsecs. (a), (d), (h). Pub. L. 112–239, §1076(a)(9), made technical amendment to directory language of Pub. L. 112–81, §631(f)(4)(A). See 2011 Amendment note below.

**2011**—Subsecs. (a), (d), (h). Pub. L. 112–81, §631(f)(4)(A), as amended by Pub. L. 112–239, §1076(a)(9), substituted “476(h)” for “406(h)” in subsec. (a), “476(j)” for “406(j)” in subsec. (d), and “474(d)(1)” for “404(d)(1)” in subsec. (h).

**2003**—Subsecs. (h), (i). Pub. L. 108–136 added subsec. (h) and redesignated former subsec. (h) as (i).

**2002**—Subsec. (b)(1), (2). Pub. L. 107–314, §575(a), added pars. (1) and (2) and struck out former pars. (1) and (2) which read as follows:

“(1) In lieu of transportation authorized by this section, if a member is ordered to make a change of permanent station to a foreign country and the laws, regulations, or other restrictions imposed by the foreign country or the United States preclude entry of a motor vehicle described in subsection (a) into that country, or would require extensive modification of the vehicle as a condition to entry, the member may elect to have the vehicle stored at the expense of the United States at a location approved by the Secretary concerned.

“(2) If a member is transferred or assigned in connection with a contingency operation to duty at a location other than the permanent station of the member for a period of more than 30 consecutive days, but the transfer or assignment is not considered a change of permanent station, the member may elect to have a motor vehicle described in subsection (a) stored at the expense of the United States at a location approved by the Secretary concerned.”

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 107–296 substituted “of Homeland Security” for “of Transportation”.

Subsec. (h)(3). Pub. L. 107–314, §575(b), added par. (3).

**2001**—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 107–107, §594(a), added par. (4).

Subsec. (h)(1). Pub. L. 107–107, §594(b), substituted “includes the following:” and subpars. (A) and (B) for “includes an authorized change in home port of a vessel, or a transfer or assignment between two permanent stations in the continental United States when the member cannot, because of injury or the conditions of the order, drive the motor vehicle between the permanent duty stations.”

**1998**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 105–261, §631(b)(2), substituted “section 406(j)” for “section 406(k)”.

Subsecs. (g), (h). Pub. L. 105–261, §653(a), added subsec. (g) and redesignated former subsec. (g) as (h).

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–201, §368(a)(2)(A), substituted “Motor vehicles: transportation or storage for members on change of permanent station or extended deployment” for “Motor vehicles: for members on change of permanent station” in section catchline.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–201, §368(a)(1)(C), added subsec. (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (g).

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–106 substituted “section 406(k) of title 37” for “section 406(l) of title 37”.

Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 104–201, §368(a)(1)(A), (B), redesignated subsec. (b) as (g) and transferred it to end of section.

**1992**—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 102–484 added subsec. (f).

**1987**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 100–180, §616(a)(1), inserted “or leased” after “owned” in two places in introductory text.

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 100–26 redesignated subsec. (f) as (d).

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 100–180, §616(a)(2), added subsec. (e).

Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 100–26 redesignated subsec. (f) as (d).

**1986**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99–661, §611(a), substituted “by other surface transportation” for “in the case of movement, the major portion of which is by shipping services described in clause (1) or (2), by other surface transportation between customary ports of embarkation and debarkation” in par. (4), and struck out “, or his designee,” after “When the Secretary concerned” in last sentence.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 99–661, §611(b), amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) read as follows: “In this section, ‘change of permanent station’ means the transfer or assignment of a member of the armed forces from one permanent station to another. It includes the change from home or from the place from which ordered to active duty to first station upon appointment, call to active duty, enlistment, or induction, and from last duty station to home or to the place from which ordered to active duty upon separation from the service, placement upon the temporary disability retired list, release from active duty, or retirement. It also includes an authorized change in home yard or home port of a vessel.”

Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 99–661, §620(b)(2), added subsec. (f).

**1981**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 97–60 substituted “one motor vehicle that is owned by the member (or a dependent of the member) and is for the personal use of the member or his dependents may, unless a motor vehicle owned by him (or a dependent of his) was transported” for “one motor vehicle owned by him and for his personal use or the use of his dependents may, unless a motor vehicle owned by him was transported” in provisions preceding par. (1) and, in provisions following par. (4), inserted “(or a dependent of the member)” after “one additional motor vehicle of the member”.

**1974**—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 93–548, §1, added par. (4).

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 93–548, §2, added subsec. (c).

**1965**—Pub. L. 89–101 substituted “change of permanent station” for “permanent change of station” in section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), substituted “change of permanent station” for “permanent change of station” in two places, inserted “or for the use of his dependents” and “or such other place as the Secretary concerned may authorize”, added cl. 3, provided for the transportation of one additional motor vehicle when replacement is necessary, and added subsec. (b).

**1964**—Pub. L. 88–431 inserted “, leased, or chartered” and “unless a motor vehicle owned by him was transported in advance of that permanent change of station under section 406(h) of title 37”.

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, §1076(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1947, provided that the amendment made by section 1076(a)(9) is effective Dec. 31, 2011, and as if included in Pub. L. 112–81 as enacted.

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendments

Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title V, §575(c), Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2559, provided that: “The amendments made by this section \[amending this section\] apply to orders to make a change of permanent station to a nonforeign area outside the continental United States (as such term is defined in subsection (h)(3) of section 2634 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (b)) that are issued on or after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 2, 2002\].”

Amendment by Pub. L. 107–296 effective on the date of transfer of the Coast Guard to the Department of Homeland Security, see section 1704(g) of Pub. L. 107–296, set out as a note under section 101 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 2001 Amendment

Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title V, §594(c), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1126, provided that: “The amendments made by this section \[amending this section\] apply to orders to make a change of permanent station that are issued on or after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 28, 2001\].”

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title VI, §653(e), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2052, provided that:

“(1) Reimbursement for motor vehicle rental expenses may not be provided under the amendments made by this section \[amending this section and sections 405a, 406, and 554 of Title 37, Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services\] until after the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to Congress a report containing a certification that the Department of Defense has in place and operational a system to recover the cost of providing such reimbursement from commercial carriers that are responsible for the delay in the delivery of the motor vehicles of members of the Armed Forces and their dependents. The Secretary of Defense shall prepare the report in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, with respect to the Coast Guard.

“(2) The amendments shall apply with respect to rental expenses described in such amendments that are incurred on or after the date of the submission of the report. The report shall be submitted not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 17, 1998\] and shall include, in addition to the certification, a description of the system to be used to recover from commercial carriers the costs incurred under such amendments.”

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title III, §368(c), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2498, provided that: “The amendments made by this section \[amending this section and section 406 of Title 37, Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services\] shall take effect on April 1, 1997.”

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 99–661, applicable with respect to members whose dependents are unable to accompany them to an overseas permanent duty station because of circumstances arising on or after Nov. 14, 1986, see section 620(c)(2) of Pub. L. 99–661, set out as a note under section 476 of Title 37, Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services.

#### Effective Date of 1965 Amendment; Reimbursement of Expenses

Pub. L. 89–101, §3, July 30, 1965, 79 Stat. 425, provided that: “This Act \[amending this section and section 406 of title 37\] shall be effective May 1, 1965. Any member who—

“(1) transported a motor vehicle at his personal expense after April 30, 1965, and before the enactment of this Act \[July 30, 1965\]; and

“(2) would have been entitled to the transportation of such motor vehicle at Government expense under the provisions of this Act;

shall be reimbursed for the allowable transportation cost actually expended by him. Appropriations available for permanent change of station travel shall be available for the reimbursements authorized by this Act.”

#### Public Health Service

Authority vested by this section in “the Secretary concerned” to be exercised, with respect to commissioned officers of Public Health Service, by Secretary of Health and Human Services or his designee, see section 213a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

#### National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

Authority vested by this section in “the Secretary concerned” to be exercised, with respect to commissioned officer corps of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, by Secretary of Commerce or his designee, see section 3071 of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters.