### §3734. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat Reduction activities with Russian Federation

#### (a) Sense of Congress

It is the sense of Congress that—

(1) the United States should carry out activities under the Program in the Russian Federation only if those activities are consistent with and in support of the security interests of the United States; and

(2) in carrying out any such activities after December 19, 2014, the Secretary of Defense should focus on only those activities that—

(A) are in support of the arms control obligations of the United States and the Russian Federation; or

(B) will reduce the threats posed by weapons of mass destruction and related materials and technology to the United States and countries in the Euro-Atlantic and Eurasian regions.

#### (b) Completion of Cooperation Threat Reduction activities in Russian Federation

Cooperative Threat Reduction funds made available for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2015 may not be obligated or expended for activities in the Russian Federation unless such activities in Russia are specifically authorized by law.

(Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XIII, §1334, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3603.)

#### Limitation on Use of Funds for Chemical Weapons Destruction Activities in Russia

Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title XIII, §1304, Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2163, provided that:

"(a) Limitation.—Subject to the limitation in section 1405(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105–85; 111 Stat. 1961), no funds authorized to be appropriated for Cooperative Threat Reduction programs under this Act \[see Tables for classification\] or any other Act may be obligated or expended for chemical weapons destruction activities in Russia (including activities for the planning, design, or construction of a chemical weapons destruction facility or for the dismantlement of an existing chemical weapons production facility) until the President submits to Congress a written certification described in subsection (b).

"(b) Presidential Certification.—A certification under this subsection is either of the following certifications by the President:

"(1) A certification that—

"(A) Russia is making reasonable progress toward the implementation of the Bilateral Destruction Agreement;

"(B) the United States and Russia have made substantial progress toward the resolution, to the satisfaction of the United States, of outstanding compliance issues under the Wyoming Memorandum of Understanding and the Bilateral Destruction Agreement; and

"(C) Russia has fully and accurately declared all information regarding its unitary and binary chemical weapons, chemical weapons facilities, and other facilities associated with chemical weapons.

"(2) A certification that the national security interests of the United States could be undermined by a policy of the United States not to carry out chemical weapons destruction activities under Cooperative Threat Reduction programs for which funds are authorized to be appropriated under this Act or any other Act for fiscal year 1999.

"(c) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) The term 'Bilateral Destruction Agreement' means the Agreement Between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on Destruction and Non-production of Chemical Weapons and on Measures to Facilitate the Multilateral Convention on Banning Chemical Weapons signed on June 1, 1990.

"(2) The term 'Wyoming Memorandum of Understanding' means the Memorandum of Understanding Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics Regarding a Bilateral Verification Experiment and Data Exchange Related to Prohibition on Chemical Weapons, signed at Jackson Hole, Wyoming, on September 23, 1989."

\[Memorandum of President of the United States, July 16, 1999, 64 F.R. 40503, delegated to Secretary of Defense authority of President under section 1304(b)(2) of Public Law 105–261, set out above.\]

Similar provisions were contained in the following prior authorization acts:

Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title XIV, §1406, Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1961.

Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XII, §1209, Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 472.