### §9631. Operations

#### (a) Bilateral agreements

The Corporation may provide support under subchapter II of this chapter in connection with projects in any country the government of which has entered into an agreement with the United States authorizing the Corporation to provide such support in that country.

#### (b) Claims settlement

#### (1) In general

Claims arising as a result of support provided under subchapter II of this chapter or under predecessor authority may be settled, and disputes arising as a result thereof may be arbitrated with the consent of the parties, on such terms and conditions as the Corporation may determine.

#### (2) Settlements conclusive

Payment made pursuant to any settlement pursuant to paragraph (1), or as a result of an arbitration award, shall be final and conclusive notwithstanding any other provision of law.

#### (c) Presumption of compliance

Each contract executed by such officer or officers as may be designated by the Board shall be conclusively presumed to be issued in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.

#### (d) Electronic payments and documents

The Corporation shall implement policies to accept electronic documents and electronic payments in all of its programs.

(Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title III, §1431, Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3499.)

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original "this division", meaning division F of Pub. L. 115–254, Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3485, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of division F to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9601 of this title and Tables.