### §4007. Science and technology programs to be conducted so as to foster the transition of science and technology to higher levels of research, development, test, and evaluation

(a) Policy.—Each official specified in subsection (b) shall ensure that the management and conduct of the science and technology programs under the authority of that official are carried out in a manner that will foster the transition of science and technology to higher levels of research, development, test, and evaluation.

(b) Covered Officials.—Subsection (a) applies to the following officials of the Department of Defense:

(1) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.

(2) The Secretary of each military department.

(3) The Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.

(4) The directors and heads of other offices and agencies of the Department of Defense with assigned research, development, test, and evaluation responsibilities.

(Added Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title IX, §904(a)(1)\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–225, §2359; amended Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, §902(55), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1549; renumbered §4007, Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1841(c), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4243.)

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.