### §4002. Research projects: transactions other than contracts and grants

(a) Additional Forms of Transactions Authorized.—The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of each military department may enter into transactions (other than contracts, cooperative agreements, and grants) under the authority of this subsection in carrying out basic, applied, and advanced research projects. The authority under this subsection is in addition to the authority provided in section 4001 of this title to use contracts, cooperative agreements, and grants in carrying out such projects.

(b) Exercise of Authority by Secretary of Defense.—In any exercise of the authority in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall act through the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency or any other element of the Department of Defense that the Secretary may designate.

(c) Advance Payments.—The authority provided under subsection (a) may be exercised without regard to section 3324 of title 31.

(d) Recovery of Funds.—(1) A cooperative agreement for performance of basic, applied, or advanced research authorized by section 4001 of this title and a transaction authorized by subsection (a) may include a clause that requires a person or other entity to make payments to the Department of Defense or any other department or agency of the Federal Government as a condition for receiving support under the agreement or other transaction.

(2) The amount of any payment received by the Federal Government pursuant to a requirement imposed under paragraph (1) may be credited, to the extent authorized by the Secretary of Defense, to the appropriate account established under subsection (f). Amounts so credited shall be merged with other funds in the account and shall be available for the same purposes and the same period for which other funds in such account are available.

(e) Conditions.—(1) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that—

(A) to the maximum extent practicable, no cooperative agreement containing a clause under subsection (d) and no transaction entered into under subsection (a) provides for research that duplicates research being conducted under existing programs carried out by the Department of Defense; and

(B) to the extent that the Secretary determines practicable, the funds provided by the Government under a cooperative agreement containing a clause under subsection (d) or a transaction authorized by subsection (a) do not exceed the total amount provided by other parties to the cooperative agreement or other transaction.

  

(2) A cooperative agreement containing a clause under subsection (d) or a transaction authorized by subsection (a) may be used for a research project when the use of a standard contract, grant, or cooperative agreement for such project is not feasible or appropriate.

(f) Support Accounts.—There is hereby established on the books of the Treasury separate accounts for each of the military departments and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency for support of research projects and development projects provided for in cooperative agreements containing a clause under subsection (d) and research projects provided for in transactions entered into under subsection (a). Funds in those accounts shall be available for the payment of such support.

(g) Education and Training.—The Secretary of Defense shall—

(1) ensure that management, technical, and contracting personnel of the Department of Defense involved in the award or administration of transactions under this section or other innovative forms of contracting are afforded opportunities for adequate education and training; and

(2) establish minimum levels and requirements for continuous and experiential learning for such personnel, including levels and requirements for acquisition certification programs.

  

(h) Regulations.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

(i) Protection of Certain Information From Disclosure.—(1) Disclosure of information described in paragraph (2) is not required, and may not be compelled, under section 552 of title 5 for five years after the date on which the information is received by the Department of Defense.

(2)(A) Paragraph (1) applies to information described in subparagraph (B) that is in the records of the Department of Defense if the information was submitted to the Department in a competitive or noncompetitive process having the potential for resulting in an award, to the party submitting the information, of a cooperative agreement for performance of basic, applied, or advanced research authorized by section 4001 of this title or another transaction authorized by subsection (a).

(B) The information referred to in subparagraph (A) is the following:

(i) A proposal, proposal abstract, and supporting documents.

(ii) A business plan submitted on a confidential basis.

(iii) Technical information submitted on a confidential basis.

(Added Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title II, §251(a)(1), Nov. 29, 1989, 103 Stat. 1403, §2371; amended Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XIV, §1484(k)(9), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1719; Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title VIII, §826, Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1442; Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title II, §217, Oct. 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 2352; Pub. L. 103–35, title II, §201(c)(4), May 31, 1993, 107 Stat. 98; Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, §827(b), title XI, §1182(a)(6), Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1712, 1771; Pub. L. 103–355, title I, §1301(b), Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3285; Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, §1502(a)(1), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 502; Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title II, §267(a)–(c)(1)(A), title X, §1073(e)(1)(B), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2467, 2468, 2658; Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title VIII, §832, Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1842; Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title VIII, §817, Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2089; Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, §1067(1), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 774; Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, §1031(a)(19), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1597; Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title X, §1071(f)(20), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3511; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, §863, Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1494; renumbered §4002 and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1841(b)(1), (2)(B), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4243.)

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1841(b)(2)(B), substituted "section 4001" for "section 2358" wherever appearing.

Pub. L. 116–283, §1841(b)(1), renumbered section 2371 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Listing of Other Transaction Authority Consortia

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, §833, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3753, provided that: "Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Jan. 1, 2021\], the Secretary of Defense shall maintain on the single Government-wide point of entry described under section 1708 of title 41, United States Code, a list of the consortia used by the Secretary to announce or otherwise make available opportunities to enter into a transaction under the authority of section 2371 of title 10, United States Code, or a transaction for a prototype project under section 2371b of such title."