### §7191. Non-regular officers: status

A commissioned officer of the Army, other than of the Regular Army, who is on active duty in any commissioned grade has the rights and privileges, and is entitled to the benefits, provided by law for a commissioned officer of the Army Reserve—

(1) whose reserve grade is that in which the officer not of the Regular Army is serving;

(2) who has the same length of service as the officer not of the Regular Army; and

(3) who is on active duty in his reserve grade.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 198, §3491; renumbered §7191, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(b)(5), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1838.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                  |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 3491              | 10:506d(h).          | Aug. 7, 1947, ch. 512, §515(h), 61 Stat. 908. |

The first 12 words are substituted for 10:506d(h) (1st 11 words). The words "has the rights and privileges, and is entitled to the benefits" are substituted for the words "shall be entitled \* \* \* to the same rights, privileges, and benefits". Clause (1) is substituted for the words "in a grade the same as such 'active-duty grade' ". The words "as the officer not of the Regular Army" are substituted for the words "holding appointment in the Army Reserve". The words "his reserve grade" are substituted for the words "the grade held in the Army Reserve".

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior section 7201, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 442, authorized Secretary of the Navy to conduct research and development relating to guided missiles and to procure and construct guided missiles, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, §824(a)(1), Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1707.

Prior section 7202, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 442, related to authority of Secretary of the Navy to provide for emergency and extraordinary expenses and to delegation of such authority to other persons in the Department of the Navy, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 94–106, title VIII, §804(b), Oct. 7, 1975, 89 Stat. 538. See section 127 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 3491 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.