### §186. Library of Congress orders under task and delivery order contracts

#### (a) Contract modifications

An order issued under a task order contract or a delivery order contract (as such terms are defined in section 4101 of title 41) entered into by the Librarian of Congress may not increase the scope, period, or maximum value of the contract under which the order is issued. The scope, period, or maximum value of the contract may be increased only by modification of the contract.

#### (b) Omitted

#### (c) Protests

#### (1) Protest not authorized

A protest to an order described in subsection (a) filed pursuant to the procedures in subchapter V of chapter 35 of title 31 is not authorized unless such protest—

(A) is an objection on the basis that the order is in violation of subsection (a); or

(B) concerns an order valued in excess of $10,000,000.

#### (2) Jurisdiction over protests

Notwithstanding section 3556 of title 31, the Comptroller General shall have exclusive jurisdiction of a protest authorized under paragraph (1)(B).

#### (d) Effective date

This section and the amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2022 and each succeeding fiscal year.

(Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title I, §142, Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 519.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 142 of div. I of Pub. L. 117–103. Subsec. (b) of section 142 of div. I of Pub. L. 117–103 amended section 6102 of Title 41, Public Contracts.