### §1911. Additional annual authorization of appropriations

#### (a) In general

In addition to amounts that may be made available to the Secretary under the Fund for a fiscal year, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2020, $16,000,000, to carry out the grant program for the National Flagship Language Initiative under section 1902(a)(1)(D) of this title.

#### (b) Funding from Intelligence Community Management Account for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2005

In addition to amounts that may be made available to the Secretary under the Fund for a fiscal year, the Director of National Intelligence shall transfer to the Secretary from amounts appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account for each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2005, $6,000,000 to carry out the grant program for the National Flagship Language Initiative under section 1902(a)(1)(D) of this title.

#### (c) Availability of appropriated funds

Amounts made available under this section shall remain available until expended.

(Pub. L. 102–183, title VIII, §811, as added Pub. L. 107–306, title III, §333(b), Nov. 27, 2002, 116 Stat. 2397; amended Pub. L. 108–487, title VI, §602(b), Dec. 23, 2004, 118 Stat. 3953; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVI, §1623, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1735.)

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–92, which directed amendment of section 811(a) of the Fair Chance Act (50 U.S.C. 1911(a)) by substituting "fiscal year 2020" for "fiscal year 2003" and "$16,000,000" for "$10,000,000", was executed to subsec. (a) of this section, which is section 811 of the David L. Boren National Security Education Act of 1991, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2004**—Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 108–487 added subsecs. (b) and (c) and struck out heading and text of former subsec. (b). Text read as follows: "Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations under subsection (a) shall remain available until expended."

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date the Secretary of Defense submits the report required under section 334 of Pub. L. 107–306 and notifies the appropriate committees of Congress that the programs carried out under this chapter are being managed in a fiscally and programmatically sound manner, see section 333(c) of Pub. L. 107–306, set out as an Effective Date of 2002 Amendment note under section 1902 of this title.