### §1912. Funding for scholarship program for advanced English language studies by heritage community citizens

#### (a) Funding from Intelligence Community Management Account

In addition to amounts that may be made available to the Secretary under the Fund for a fiscal year, the Director of National Intelligence shall transfer to the Secretary from amounts appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2021 $2,000,000 to carry out the scholarship programs for English language studies by certain heritage community citizens under section 1902(a)(1)(E) of this title.

#### (b) Fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2022

In addition to amounts that may be made available to the Secretary under the Fund for a fiscal year, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2022, $2,000,000, to carry out the scholarship programs for English language studies by certain heritage community citizens under section 1902(a)(1)(E) of this title.

#### (c) Availability of funds

Amounts made available under this section shall remain available until expended.

(Pub. L. 102–183, title VIII, §812, as added Pub. L. 108–487, title VI, §603(b), Dec. 23, 2004, 118 Stat. 3954; amended Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title VI, §619(c), Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2401.)

#### Amendments

**2020**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–260, §619(c)(1), substituted "for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2021" for "for each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2005,".

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–260, §619(c)(3), added subsec. (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (c).

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 116–260, §619(c)(2), (4), redesignated subsec. (b) as (c) and substituted "this section" for "subsection (a)".