### §3067. Approval required for military department termination or reduction in participation in joint acquisition programs

(a) Approval of Terminations and Reductions of Joint Acquisition Programs.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations that prohibit each military department participating in a joint acquisition program approved by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment from terminating or substantially reducing its participation in such program without the approval of the Under Secretary.

(b) Required Content of Regulations.—The regulations shall include the following provisions:

(1) A requirement that, before any such termination or substantial reduction in participation is approved, the proposed termination or reduction be reviewed by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council of the Department of Defense.

(2) A provision that authorizes the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment to require a military department whose participation in a joint acquisition program has been approved for termination or substantial reduction to continue to provide some or all of the funding necessary for the acquisition program to be continued in an efficient manner.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1807(d)(2)(B), (E), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4158.)

#### Codification

The text of subsec. (c) of section 2311 of this title, which was transferred first to section 3065(c) of this title and then to this section and amended by Pub. L. 116–283, §1807(d)(1), (2)(B), (E), was based on Pub. L. 103–355, title I, §1503(a)(1), Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3296; Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title X, §1048(b)(2), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1225; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, §902(49), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1548.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3067 was renumbered section 7067 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1807(d)(2)(E), redesignated subsec. (c) of section 3065 of this title as subsec. (a) of this section, struck out par. (1) designation before "The Secretary of Defense shall", redesignated par. (2) and its subpars. (A) and (B) as subsec. (b) and pars. (1) and (2), respectively, and inserted subsec. (b) heading.

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.