### §7906. Prohibited uses of funds

No funds under this chapter may be used—

(1) for construction, renovation, or repair of any school facility, except as authorized under this chapter;

(2) for transportation unless otherwise authorized under this chapter;

(3) to develop or distribute materials, or operate programs or courses of instruction directed at youth, that are designed to promote or encourage sexual activity, whether homosexual or heterosexual;

(4) to distribute or to aid in the distribution by any organization of legally obscene materials to minors on school grounds;

(5) to provide sex education or HIV-prevention education in schools unless that instruction is age appropriate and includes the health benefits of abstinence; or

(6) to operate a program of contraceptive distribution in schools.

(Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, §8526, formerly title IX, §9526, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IX, §901, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1982; renumbered title VIII, §8526, and amended Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, §§8001(a)(6), 8022, Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 2088, 2089, 2112.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7906, Pub. L. 89–10, title IX, §9206, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, §101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3800, authorized grants for a Native Hawaiian higher education program, prior to the general amendment of former subchapter IX of this chapter by Pub. L. 107–110.

#### Amendments

**2015**—Pub. L. 114–95, §8022, substituted "Prohibited uses of funds" for "General prohibitions" in section catchline, struck out subsec. (a) designation and heading, substituted "No funds under this chapter may be used" for "None of the funds authorized under this chapter shall be used" in introductory provisions, added pars. (1) and (2), redesignated former pars. (1) to (4) as (3) to (6), respectively, and struck out subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (b) read as follows: "Nothing in this section shall be construed to—

"(1) authorize an officer or employee of the Federal Government to mandate, direct, review, or control a State, local educational agency, or school's instructional content, curriculum, and related activities;

"(2) limit the application of the General Education Provisions Act;

"(3) require the distribution of scientifically or medically false or inaccurate materials or to prohibit the distribution of scientifically or medically true or accurate materials; or

"(4) create any legally enforceable right."

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–95 effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95, set out as a note under section 6301 of this title.