### §410rr–1. Establishment

#### (a) Preservation of existing Pecos National Monument and related resources

In order to enhance and preserve the existing Pecos National Monument and related nationally significant resources for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, there is hereby established the Pecos National Historical Park (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the "park").

#### (b) Park boundaries

The park shall include the existing Pecos National Monument and the area known as the Forked Lightning Ranch which surrounds the Pecos National Monument and shall consist of approximately 5,865 acres of the lands and interests in lands as generally depicted on the map entitled "Pecos National Historical Park Boundary Concept", numbered 430/80028 and dated March 1990. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the "Secretary") may from time to time make minor revisions in the boundary of the park in accordance with section 100506(c) of title 54.

#### (c) Availability of monument funds for park purposes

The Act entitled "An Act to authorize the establishment of Pecos National Monument in the State of New Mexico, and for other purposes" approved June 28, 1965 (79 Stat. 195), is hereby repealed, and any funds available for purposes of the Pecos National Monument shall be available for purposes of the park.

(Pub. L. 101–313, title II, §202, June 27, 1990, 104 Stat. 278.)

#### References in Text

The Act entitled "An Act to authorize the establishment of Pecos National Monument in the State of New Mexico, and for other purposes" approved June 28, 1965 (79 Stat. 195), referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 89–54, June 28, 1965, 79 Stat. 195, which enacted provisions listed in a Miscellaneous National Monuments table set out under section 320301 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

#### Codification

In subsec. (b), "section 100506(c) of title 54" substituted for "section 7(c) of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l–4 and following)" on authority of Pub. L. 113–287, §6(e), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272, which Act enacted Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.