### §410rr–7. Glorieta Unit of Pecos National Historical Park

#### (a) Establishment

In order to preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, there is hereby established the Glorieta Unit of the Pecos National Historical Park (hereafter in this section referred to as the "Glorieta Unit"). The Glorieta Unit shall be comprised of approximately 682 acres as generally depicted on the maps entitled "Glorieta Unit—Pecos National Historical Park", numbered 430–80,031, and dated July 1990. The boundary of Pecos National Historical Park, established by title II of Public Law 101–313 (104 Stat. 278) \[16 U.S.C. 410rr et seq.\], is hereby modified to include the Glorieta Unit.

#### (b) Administration

The Secretary shall administer the Glorieta Unit to preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, in accordance with the provisions of this section, applicable provisions of title II of Public Law 101–313, and provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1–4),[1](#410rr-7_1_target) and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 U.S.C.[2](#410rr-7_2_target) 666; 16 U.S.C. 461–7).[1](#410rr-7_1_target)

#### (c) Acquisition

The Secretary is authorized to acquire lands, waters, and interests therein within the boundaries of the Glorieta Unit by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange. Lands may not be acquired for purposes of the Glorieta Unit without the consent of the owner thereof unless the Secretary determines that, in his judgment, the property is subject to, or threatened with, uses which are having, or would have, an adverse impact on the Glorieta Unit or on the management of the Glorieta Unit.

#### (d) Transfer

Lands identified on the maps referred to in subsection (a) as being within unit number 26 in the "Historic Zone" are hereby transferred from the administration of the Secretary of Agriculture to the administration of the Secretary of the Interior, to be managed in accordance with the provisions of this section.

#### (e) Management plan

The Secretary shall incorporate management direction for the Glorieta Unit into the general management plan for the Pecos National Historical Park, including the identification of routes of travel associated with the Battle of Glorieta.

#### (f) Authorization of appropriations

There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.

(Pub. L. 101–536, §3, Nov. 8, 1990, 104 Stat. 2368.)

#### References in Text

This section, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b), (d), and (f), was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 101–536, Nov. 8, 1990, 104 Stat. 2368, known as the Pecos National Historical Park Expansion Act of 1990, which enacted this section and provisions set out as notes under this section and section 410rr of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1990 Amendment note set out under section 410rr of this title and Tables.

Title II of Public Law 101–313, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is title II of Pub. L. 101–313, June 27, 1990, 104 Stat. 278, which is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see Tables.

The Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1–4), referred to in subsec. (b), is act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408, 39 Stat. 535, known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and provisions set out as a note under section 100101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as section 1865(a) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54 by Pub. L. 113–287, §§3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3094, 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

The Act of August 21, 1935 (49 U.S.C. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461–7), referred to in subsec. (b), is act Aug. 21, 1935, ch. 593, 49 Stat. 666, known as the Historic Sites Act of 1935 and also as the Historic Sites, Buildings, and Antiquities Act, which enacted sections 461 to 467 of this title. The Act was repealed and restated as section 1866(a) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and sections 102303 and 102304 and chapter 3201 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, by Pub. L. 113–287, §§3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3094, 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Pecos National Historical Park Expansion Act of 1990, and not as part of title II of Pub. L. 101–313 which comprises this subchapter.

#### Findings and Purpose

Pub. L. 101–536, §2, Nov. 8, 1990, 104 Stat. 2368, provided that:

"(a) Findings.—The Congress makes the following findings:

"(1) the Civil War battle of Glorieta Pass, New Mexico, fought on March 26–28, 1862, was a decisive battle of the Civil War in the Far West;

"(2) the battle was significant because the Confederate defeat at Glorieta Pass resulted in the collapse of the Confederacy's plan to capture the riches and support of the West, thus largely ending the Civil War in the West; and

"(3) the campsite and headquarters of the Union forces during the Battle of Glorieta are currently within the boundary of Pecos National Historical Park.

"(b) Purpose.—The purpose of this Act \[enacting this section and provisions set out as a note under section 410rr of this title\] is to preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta and to enhance visitor understanding of the Civil War and the Far West by establishing a new unit of Pecos National Historical Park."

[1 See References in Text note below.](#410rr-7_1)

[2 So in original. Probably should be "Stat."](#410rr-7_2)