### §357. Report by Commission to President with respect to pay

The Commission shall submit to the President a report of the results of each review conducted by the Commission with respect to rates of pay for the offices and positions within the purview of subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) of section 356 of this title, together with its recommendations. Each such report shall be submitted on such date as the President may designate but not later than December 15 next following the close of the fiscal year in which the review is conducted by the Commission.

(Pub. L. 90–206, title II, §225(g), Dec. 16, 1967, 81 Stat. 644; Pub. L. 99–190, §135(c), Dec. 19, 1985, 99 Stat. 1322; Pub. L. 101–194, title VII, §701(e), Nov. 30, 1989, 103 Stat. 1764.)

#### Amendments

**1989**—Pub. L. 101–194 amended section catchline generally and in text substituted "Commission with respect to rates of pay for" for "Commission of" and "December 15 next following the close of the fiscal year in which the review is conducted by the Commission." for "December 15 of the fiscal year in which the review is conducted by the Commission."

**1985**—Pub. L. 99–190 substituted "December 15" for "January 1 next following the close".

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 16, 1967, see section 220(a)(1) of Pub. L. 90–206, set out as a note under section 3110 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### 1985 Fiscal Year Recommendations on Pay Rates of Offices and Positions

Pub. L. 99–190, §135(g), Dec. 19, 1985, 99 Stat. 1323, provided that notwithstanding section 357 of this title, the Commission on Executive, Legislative, and Judicial Salaries should not make recommendations on the pay rates of certain offices and positions under section 356 of this title in connection with rate reviews in fiscal year 1985.