### §2366c. Major defense acquisition programs: submissions to Congress on Milestone C

(a) Brief Summary Report.—Not later than 15 days after granting Milestone C approval for a major defense acquisition program, the milestone decision authority for the program shall provide to the congressional defense committees and, in the case of intelligence or intelligence-related activities, the congressional intelligence committees a brief summary report that contains the following:

(1) The estimated cost and schedule for the program established by the military department concerned, including—

(A) the dollar values estimated for the program acquisition unit cost, average procurement unit cost, and total life-cycle cost; and

(B) the planned dates for initial operational test and evaluation and initial operational capability.

  

(2) The independent estimated cost for the program established pursuant to section 2334(a)(6) of this title, and any independent estimated schedule for the program, including—

(A) the dollar values estimated for the program acquisition unit cost, average procurement unit cost, and total life-cycle cost; and

(B) the planned dates for initial operational test and evaluation and initial operational capability.

  

(3) A summary of any production, manufacturing, and fielding risks associated with the program.

(4) An assessment of the sufficiency of the developmental test and evaluation completed, including the use of automated data analytics or modeling and simulation tools and methodologies.

  

(b) Additional Information.—At the request of any of the congressional defense committees or, in the case of intelligence or intelligence-related activities, the congressional intelligence committees, the milestone decision authority shall submit to the committee further information or underlying documentation for the information in a brief summary report submitted under subsection (a), including the independent cost and schedule estimates and the independent technical risk assessments referred to in that subsection.

(c) Congressional Intelligence Committees Defined.—In this section, the term "congressional intelligence committees" has the meaning given that term in section 437(c) of this title.

(Added Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §808(c)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2265; amended Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, §838(a)(2), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1474.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1847(d)(3), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4256, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 322 of this title, inserted after section 4252, as transferred and redesignated by section 1847(d)(3) of Pub. L. 116–283, and redesignated as section 4253 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 115–91 added par. (4).

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Responsibility for Conducting Assessments; Guidance

For provisions designating officials responsible for conducting assessments and provisions requiring guidance for assessments under subsec. (a)(4) of this section, see section 838(a)(3), (4) of Pub. L. 115–91, set out as notes under section 2366b of this title.