### §2357. Technology protection features activities

(a) Activities.—The Secretary of Defense shall carry out activities to develop and incorporate technology protection features in a designated system during the research and development phase of such system.

(b) Cost-sharing.—Any contract for the design or development of a system resulting from activities under subsection (a) for the purpose of enhancing or enabling the exportability of the system, either for the development of program protection strategies for the system or the design and incorporation of exportability features into the system, shall include a cost-sharing provision that requires the contractor to bear half of the cost of such activities, or such other portion of such cost as the Secretary considers appropriate upon showing of good cause.

(c) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "designated system" means any system (including a major system, as defined in section 2302(5) of title 10, United States Code) that the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment designates for purposes of this section.

(2) The term "technology protection features" means the technical modifications necessary to protect critical program information, including anti-tamper technologies and other systems engineering activities intended to prevent or delay exploitation of critical technologies in a designated system.

(Added Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title II, §223(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1682.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1841(c), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4243, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 301 of this title, as added by section 1841(a) of Pub. L. 116–283, added after section 4007 of this title, as transferred and redesignated by section 1841(b) of Pub. L. 116–283, and redesignated as section 4009 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2357, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 135, required Secretary of each military department to report to Congress on contracts for research and development, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XIII, §1301(11), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1668.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.