### §2374b. Disclosure requirements for recipients of research and development funds

(a) In General.—Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), an individual or entity (including a State or local government) that uses funds received from the Department of Defense to carry out research or development activities shall include, in any public document pertaining to such activities, a clear statement indicating the dollar amount of the funds received from the Department for such activities.

(b) Exception.—The disclosure requirement under subsection (a) shall not apply to a public document consisting of fewer than 280 characters.

(c) Waiver.—The Secretary of Defense may waive the disclosure requirement under subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis.

(d) Public Document Defined.—In this section, the term "public document" means any document or other written statement made available for public reference or use, regardless of whether such document or statement is made available in hard copy or electronic format.

(Added Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title II, §212(a)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3456.)

#### Repeal of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1881(a), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4293, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is repealed. See Effective Date of Repeal note below.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2374b, added Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title II, §248(c)(1), Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2502, related to prizes for achievements in promoting science, mathematics, engineering, or technology education, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, §1076(g)(4), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1955.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title II, §212(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3456, provided that: "The amendments made by subsection (a) \[enacting this section\] shall take effect on October 1, 2021, and shall apply with respect to funds for research and development that are awarded by the Department of Defense on or after that date."