### §2372. Independent research and development costs: allowable costs

(a) Regulations.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations governing the payment by the Department of Defense of expenses incurred by contractors for independent research and development costs. Such regulations shall provide that expenses incurred for independent research and development shall be reported independently from other allowable indirect costs.

(b) Costs Treated as Fair and Reasonable, and Allowable, Expenses.—The regulations prescribed under subsection (a) shall provide that independent research and development costs shall be considered a fair and reasonable, and allowable, indirect expense on Department of Defense contracts.

(c) Additional Controls.—Subject to subsection (d), the regulations prescribed under subsection (a) may include the following provisions:

(1) Controls on the reimbursement of costs to the contractor for expenses incurred for independent research and development to ensure that such costs were incurred for independent research and development.

(2) Implementation of regular methods for transmission—

(A) from the Department of Defense to contractors, in a reasonable manner, of timely and comprehensive information regarding planned or expected needs of the Department of Defense for future technology and advanced capability; and

(B) from contractors to the Department of Defense, in a reasonable manner, of information regarding progress by the contractor on the independent research and development programs of the contractor.

  

(d) Limitations on Regulations.—Regulations prescribed under subsection (a) may not include provisions that would infringe on the independence of a contractor to choose which technologies to pursue in its independent research and development program if the chief executive officer of the contractor determines that expenditures will advance the needs of the Department of Defense for future technology and advanced capability as transmitted pursuant to subsection (c)(2)(A).

(e) Effective Date.—The regulations prescribed under subsection (a) shall apply to indirect costs incurred on or after October 1, 2017.

(Added Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title VIII, §824(a)(1), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1603; amended Pub. L. 102–25, title VII, §701(c), Apr. 6, 1991, 105 Stat. 113; Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title VIII, §802(a)(1), Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1412; Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title X, §1052(27), Oct. 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 2500; Pub. L. 103–35, title II, §201(c)(5), May 31, 1993, 107 Stat. 98; Pub. L. 104–106, div. D, title XLIII, §4321(b)(11), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 672; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §824(a)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2277; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(a)(35), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1596.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1832(j)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4225, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to subchapter II of chapter 273 of this title, as added by section 1832(j)(1) of Pub. L. 116–283, inserted after section 3761, and redesignated as section 3762 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 115–91 substituted "subsection (c)(2)(A)" for "subsection (c)(3)(A)".

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to payments to contractors for independent research and development and bid and proposal costs.

**1996**—Subsec. (i)(1). Pub. L. 104–106 substituted "2324(l)" for "2324(m)".

**1993**—Subsec. (g)(5). Pub. L. 103–35 substituted "section 2506" for "section 2522".

**1992**—Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 102–484 substituted "on December 4, 1991" for "on the day before the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993".

**1991**—Pub. L. 102–190 substituted section catchline for one which read "Independent research and development" and amended text generally, substituting present provisions for provisions authorizing payment of independent research and development or bid and proposal costs, encouraging contractors to engage in research and development activities, and authorizing advance agreements regarding the manner and extent in which the Department of Defense may pay independent research and development costs or bid and proposal costs.

Subsec. (d)(2)(B). Pub. L. 102–25 substituted "subsection (b), including" for "subsection (b) or".

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

For effective date and applicability of amendment by Pub. L. 104–106, see section 4401 of Pub. L. 104–106, set out as a note under section 2302 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1991 Amendment

Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title VIII, §802(e), Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1414, provided that: "The amendments made by this section \[amending this section and section 2330 of this title\] shall take effect on October 1, 1992, and shall apply to independent research and development and bid and proposal costs incurred by a contractor during fiscal years of that contractor that begin on or after that date."

#### Regulations

Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title VIII, §802(b), Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1414, provided that: "The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe proposed regulations to implement the amendment made by subsection (a)(1) \[amending this section\] not later than April 1, 1992, and shall prescribe final regulations for that purpose not later than June 1, 1992."

#### Study by Office of Technology Assessment

Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title VIII, §802(c), Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1414, directed Director of the Office of Technology Assessment to conduct a study to determine effect of regulations prescribed under this section on the achievement of policy stated in former subsec. (g) of this section and submit a report containing results of such study to Committees on Armed Services of Senate and House of Representatives not later than Dec. 1, 1995, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title II, §266, Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1611.