### §2359a. Technology Transition Initiative

(a) Initiative Required.—The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, shall carry out an initiative, to be known as the Technology Transition Initiative (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Initiative”), to facilitate the rapid transition of new technologies from science and technology programs of the Department of Defense into acquisition programs of the Department for the production of such technologies.

(b) Objectives.—The objectives of the Initiative are as follows:

(1) To accelerate the introduction of new technologies into operational capabilities for the armed forces.

(2) To successfully demonstrate new technologies in relevant environments.

  

(c) Management of Initiative.—(1) The Under Secretary shall designate a senior official of the Department of Defense (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Manager”) to manage the Initiative.

(2) In managing the Initiative, the Manager shall—

(A) report directly to the Under Secretary; and

(B) obtain advice and other assistance from the Technology Transition Council established under subsection (g).

  

(3) The Manager shall—

(A) in consultation with the Technology Transition Council established under subsection (g), identify promising technology transition projects that can contribute to meeting Department of Defense technology goals and requirements;

(B) identify potential sponsors in the Department of Defense to manage such projects; and

(C) provide funds under subsection (f) for those projects that are selected under subsection (d)(2).

  

(d) Selection of Projects.—(1) The science and technology and acquisition executives of each military department and each appropriate Defense Agency and the commanders of the unified and specified combatant commands may nominate technology transition projects for implementation under subsection (e) and shall submit a list of the projects so nominated to the Manager.

(2) The Manager, in consultation with the Technology Transition Council established under subsection (g), shall select projects for implementation under subsection (e) from among the projects on the lists submitted under paragraph (1).

(e) Implementation of Projects.—For each project selected under subsection (d)(2), the Manager shall designate a military department or Defense Agency to implement the project.

(f) Funding of Projects.—(1) From funds made available to the Manager for the Initiative, the Manager shall, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), provide funds for each project selected under subsection (d)(2) in an amount determined by mutual agreement between the Manager and the acquisition executive of the military department or Defense Agency concerned.

(2) The amount of funds provided to a project under paragraph (1) by the military department or Defense Agency concerned shall be the appropriate share of the military department or Defense Agency, as the case may be, of the cost of the project, as determined by the Manager.

(3) A project shall not be provided funds under this subsection for more than four fiscal years.

(g) Technology Transition Council.—(1) There is a Technology Transition Council in the Department of Defense. The Council is composed of the following members:

(A) The science and technology executive of each military department and each Defense Agency.

(B) The acquisition executive of each military department.

(C) The members of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council.

  

(2) The duty of the Council shall be to support the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics in developing policies to facilitate the rapid transition of technologies from science and technology programs into acquisition programs of the Department of Defense.

(3) The Council shall meet not less often than semiannually to carry out its duty under paragraph (2).

(h) Definition.—In this section, the term “acquisition executive”, with respect to a military department or Defense Agency, means the official designated as the senior procurement executive for that military department or Defense Agency for the purposes of section 16(c) [1](#2359a_1_target) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 414(c)).

(Added Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title II, §242(a)(1), Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2494; amended Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title II, §255(a), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3180; Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title X, §1071(a)(2), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2398; Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title II, §233, Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 46; Pub. L. 110–417, \[div. A\], title II, §253(b), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4402.)

#### Repeal of Section

Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title II, §251(a)(1), (b), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1347, provided that this section is repealed effective Oct. 1, 2013.

#### References in Text

Section 16(c) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act, referred to in subsec. (h), which was classified to section 414(c) of former Title 41, Public Contracts, was repealed and restated as section 1702(c) of Title 41, Public Contracts, by Pub. L. 111–350, §§3, 7(b), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3677, 3855.

#### Amendments

**2008**—Subsec. (f)(2). Pub. L. 110–181 amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: “The amount of funds provided to a project under paragraph (1) shall be not less than the amount equal to 50 percent of the total cost of the project.”

Subsecs. (h), (i). Pub. L. 110–417 redesignated subsec. (i) as (h) and struck out heading and text of former subsec. (h). Text read as follows: “Not later than March 31 of each year, the Under Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report on the activities carried out by the Initiative during the preceding fiscal year.”

**2006**—Subsec. (g)(2). Pub. L. 109–163 amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: “The duty of the Council shall be to provide advice and assistance to the Manager under this section.”

Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 109–364 substituted “section 16(c) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 414(c))” for “section 16(3) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 414(3))”.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title II, §251(b), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1347, provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) \[repealing this section\] shall take effect on October 1, 2013.”

#### Defense Research and Development Rapid Innovation Program

Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title X, §1073, Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4366, provided that:

“(a) Program Established.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish a competitive, merit-based program to accelerate the fielding of technologies developed pursuant to phase II Small Business Innovation Research Program projects, technologies developed by the defense laboratories, and other innovative technologies (including dual use technologies). The purpose of this program is to stimulate innovative technologies and reduce acquisition or lifecycle costs, address technical risks, improve the timeliness and thoroughness of test and evaluation outcomes, and rapidly insert such products directly in support of primarily major defense acquisition programs, but also other defense acquisition programs that meet critical national security needs.

“(b) Guidelines.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Jan. 7, 2011\], the Secretary shall issue guidelines for the operation of the program. At a minimum such guidance shall provide for the following:

“(1) The issuance of an annual broad agency announcement or the use of any other competitive or merit-based processes by the Department of Defense and by each military department for candidate proposals in direct support of primarily major defense acquisition programs, but also other defense acquisition programs as described in subsection (a).

“(2) The review of candidate proposals by the Department of Defense and by each military department and the merit-based selection of the most promising cost-effective proposals for funding through contracts, cooperative agreements, and other transactions for the purposes of carrying out the program.

“(3) The total amount of funding provided to any project under the program shall not exceed $3,000,000, unless the Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, approves a larger amount of funding for the project. Any such approval shall be made on a case-by-case basis and notice of any such approval shall be submitted to the congressional defense committees \[Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives\] by not later than 30 days after such approval is made.

“(4) No project shall be funded under the program for more than two years, unless the Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, approves funding for any additional year. Any such approval shall be made on a case-by-case basis and notice of any such approval shall be submitted to the congressional defense committees by not later than 30 days after such approval is made.

“(c) Treatment Pursuant to Certain Congressional Rules.—Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to require or enable any official of the Department of Defense to provide funding under this section to any earmark as defined pursuant to House Rule XXI, clause 9, or any congressionally directed spending item as defined pursuant to Senate Rule XLIV, paragraph 5.

“(d) Funding.—Subject to the availability of appropriations for such purpose, the amounts authorized to be appropriated for research, development, test, and evaluation for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2015 may be used for any such fiscal year for the program established under subsection (a).

“(e) Transfer Authority.—The Secretary may transfer funds available for the program to the research, development, test, and evaluation accounts of a military department, defense agency, or the unified combatant command for special operations forces pursuant to a proposal, or any part of a proposal, that the Secretary determines would directly support the purposes of the program. The transfer authority provided in this subsection is in addition to any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense.

“(f) Report.—Not later than 60 days after the last day of a fiscal year during which the Secretary carries out a program under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes a list and description of each project funded under this section, including, for each such project, the amount of funding provided for the project, the defense acquisition program that the project supports, including the extent to which the project meets needs identified in its acquisition plan, the anticipated timeline for transition for the project, and the degree to which a competitive, merit-based process was used to evaluate and select the performers of the projects selected under this program.

“(g) Termination.—The authority to carry out a program under this section shall terminate on September 30, 2015. Any amounts made available for the program that remain available for obligation on the date the program terminates may be transferred under subsection (e) during the 180-day period beginning on the date of the termination of the program.”

[1 See References in Text note below.](#2359a_1)