### §2374. Merit-based award of grants for research and development

(a) It is the policy of Congress that an agency named in section 2303(a) of this title should not be required by legislation to award a new grant for research, development, test, or evaluation to a non-Federal Government entity. It is further the policy of Congress that any program, project, or technology identified in legislation be awarded through merit-based selection procedures.

(b) A provision of law may not be construed as requiring a new grant to be awarded to a specified non-Federal Government entity unless that provision of law—

(1) specifically refers to this subsection;

(2) specifically identifies the particular non-Federal Government entity involved; and

(3) specifically states that the award to that entity is required by such provision of law in contravention of the policy set forth in subsection (a).

  

(c) For purposes of this section, a grant is a new grant unless the work provided for in the grant is a continuation of the work performed by the specified entity under a preceding grant.

(d) This section shall not apply with respect to any grant that calls upon the National Academy of Sciences to investigate, examine, or experiment upon any subject of science or art of significance to an agency named in section 2303(a) of this title and to report on such matters to the Congress or any agency of the Federal Government.

(Added Pub. L. 103–355, title VII, §7203(a)(2), Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3380.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1841(c), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4243, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 301 of this title, as added by section 1841(a) of Pub. L. 116–283, added after section 4004 of this title, as transferred and redesignated by section 1841(b) of Pub. L. 116–283, and redesignated as section 4008 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

For effective date and applicability of section, see section 10001 of Pub. L. 103–355, set out as an Effective Date of 1994 Amendment note under section 2302 of this title.