### §2360. Research and development laboratories: contracts for services of university students

(a) Subject to the availability of appropriations for such purpose, the Secretary of Defense may procure by contract under the authority of this section the temporary or intermittent services of students at institutions of higher learning for the purpose of providing technical support at defense research and development laboratories. Such contracts may be made directly with such students or with nonprofit organizations employing such students.

(b) Students providing services pursuant to a contract made under subsection (a) shall be considered to be employees for the purposes of chapter 81 of title 5, relating to compensation for work injuries, and to be employees of the government for the purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, relating to tort claims. Such students who are not otherwise employed by the Federal Government shall not be considered to be Federal employees for any other purpose.

(c) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section. Such regulations shall include definitions for the purposes of this section of the terms "student", "institution of higher learning", and "nonprofit organization".

(Added Pub. L. 97–86, title VI, §603(a), Dec. 1, 1981, 95 Stat. 1110.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1843(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4245, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to subchapter II of chapter 305 of this title, as added by section 1843(a) of Pub. L. 116–283, inserted after the table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter, and redesignated as section 4112 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.