### §1070h. Scholarships for veteran's dependents

#### (a) Definition of eligible veteran's dependent

The term "eligible veteran's dependent" means a dependent or an independent student—

(1) whose parent or guardian was a member of the Armed Forces of the United States and died as a result of performing military service in Iraq or Afghanistan after September 11, 2001; and

(2) who, at the time of the parent or guardian's death, was—

(A) less than 24 years of age; or

(B) enrolled at an institution of higher education on a part-time or full-time basis.

#### (b) Grants

#### (1) In general

The Secretary shall award a grant to each eligible veteran's dependent to assist in paying the eligible veteran's dependent's cost of attendance at an institution of higher education.

#### (2) Designation

Grants made under this section shall be known as "Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants".

#### (c) Prevention of double benefits

No eligible veteran's dependent may receive a grant under both this section and section 1070a of this title.

#### (d) Terms and conditions

The Secretary shall award grants under this section in the same manner, and with the same terms and conditions, including the length of the period of eligibility, as the Secretary awards Federal Pell Grants under section 1070a of this title, except that—

(1) the award rules and determination of need applicable to the calculation of Federal Pell Grants, shall not apply to grants made under this section;

(2) the provisions of subsection (a)(3), subsection (b)(1), the matter following subsection (b)(2)(A)(v),[1](#1070h_1_target) subsection (b)(3), and subsection (f), of section 1070a of this title shall not apply; and

(3) a grant made under this section to an eligible veteran's dependent for any award year shall equal the maximum Federal Pell Grant available for that award year, except that such a grant under this section—

(A) shall not exceed the cost of attendance of the eligible veteran's dependent for that award year; and

(B) shall be adjusted to reflect the attendance by the eligible veteran's dependent on a less than full-time basis in the same manner as such adjustments are made under section 1070a of this title.

#### (e) Estimated financial assistance

For purposes of determinations of need under part F, a grant awarded under this section shall not be treated as estimated financial assistance as described in sections 1087kk(3) and 1087vv(j) of this title.

#### (f) Authorization and appropriations of funds

There are authorized to be appropriated, and there are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Secretary to carry out this section, such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2010 and each succeeding fiscal year.

(Pub. L. 89–329, title IV, §420R, as added Pub. L. 111–39, title IV, §401(a)(9), July 1, 2009, 123 Stat. 1939.)

#### Repeal of Section

Pub. L. 117–103, div. R, §103(c)(2), (d), Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 821, provided that, effective as if included in title VII of div. FF of Pub. L. 116–260 and subject to the effective date of section 701(b) of title VII (July 1, 2024), this section is repealed.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1070a(b)(2)(A) of this title, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), as originally enacted, contained cls. (i) to (vi) followed by concluding provisions. Section 1070a(b)(2)(A) of this title was amended generally by section 2101(a)(1) of Pub. L. 111–152 and, as so amended, no longer contains either a cl. (v) or concluding provisions.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal effective as if included in title VII of div. FF of Pub. L. 116–260 and subject to the effective date of section 701(b) of title VII (July 1, 2024), see section 103(d) of div. R of Pub. L. 117–103, set out as an Effective Date of 2022 Amendment note under section 1070a of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 111–39, title IV, §401(b), July 1, 2009, 123 Stat. 1940, provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (a)(9) \[enacting this subpart\] shall take effect on July 1, 2010."

[1 See References in Text note below.](#1070h_1)