### §4211. Establishment and purposes of Foundation

#### (a) Establishment

There is established the Marine Debris Foundation (in this subchapter referred to as the "Foundation"). The Foundation is a charitable and nonprofit organization and is not an agency or establishment of the United States.

#### (b) Purposes

The purposes of the Foundation are—

(1) to encourage, accept, and administer private gifts of property for the benefit of, or in connection with, the activities and services of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration under the Marine Debris Program established under section 1952 of this title, and other relevant programs and agencies;

(2) to undertake and conduct such other activities as will augment efforts of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to assess, prevent, reduce, and remove marine debris and address the adverse impacts of marine debris on the economy of the United States, the marine environment, and navigation safety;

(3) to participate with, and otherwise assist, State, local, and Tribal governments, foreign governments, entities, and individuals in undertaking and conducting activities to assess, prevent, reduce, and remove marine debris and address the adverse impacts of marine debris and its root causes on the economy of the United States, the marine environment (including waters in the jurisdiction of the United States, the high seas, and waters in the jurisdiction of other countries), and navigation safety;

(4) subject to an agreement with the Secretary of Commerce, administer the Genius Prize for Save Our Seas Innovation as described in title II; [1](#4211_1_target) and

(5) to support other Federal actions to reduce marine debris.

(Pub. L. 116–224, title I, §111, Dec. 18, 2020, 134 Stat. 1075.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original "this title", meaning title I of Pub. L. 116–224, Dec. 18, 2020, 134 Stat. 1074, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

Title II, referred to in subsec. (b)(4), means title II of Pub. L. 116–224, which is classified generally to subchapter II of this chapter, but probably should have been a reference to subtitle C of title I of Pub. L. 116–224, which is classified generally to part B of this subchapter and relates to the Genius Prize for Save Our Seas Innovations.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#4211_1)