### §10454. Grant eligibility regarding compelling victim testimony

In order for a prosecutor's office to be eligible to receive grant funds under this subchapter, the head of the office shall certify, to the State, Indian Tribal government, or territorial government receiving the grant funding, that the office will, during the 3-year period beginning on the date on which the grant is awarded, engage in planning, developing and implementing—

(1) training developed by experts in the field regarding victim-centered approaches in domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking cases;

(2) policies that support a victim-centered approach, informed by such training; and

(3) a protocol outlining alternative practices and procedures for material witness petitions and bench warrants, consistent with best practices, that shall be exhausted before employing material witness petitions and bench warrants to obtain victim-witness testimony in the investigation, prosecution, and trial of a crime related to domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking of the victim in order to prevent further victimization and trauma to the victim.

(Pub. L. 90–351, title I, §2017, as added Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title I, §101(a)(3), Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 848.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103, set out as a note under section 6851 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade.