### §10442. Establishment of Violence Against Women Office

#### (a) In general

There is hereby established within the Department of Justice, under the general authority of the Attorney General, a Violence Against Women Office (in this subchapter referred to as the "Office").

#### (b) Separate office

The Office shall be a separate and distinct office within the Department of Justice, headed by a Director, who shall report to the Attorney General and serve as Counsel to the Attorney General on the subject of violence against women, and who shall have final authority over all grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts awarded by the Office.

#### (c) Jurisdiction

Under the general authority of the Attorney General, the Office—

(1) shall have sole jurisdiction over all duties and functions described in section 10444 of this title; and

(2) shall be solely responsible for coordination with other departments, agencies, or offices of all activities authorized or undertaken under the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (title VI [1](#10442_1_target) of Public 103–322) and the Violence Against Women Act of 2000 (Division B of Public Law 106–386).

(Pub. L. 90–351, title I, §2002, as added Pub. L. 107–273, div. A, title IV, §402(3), Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1789.)

#### References in Text

The Violence Against Women Act of 1994, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), is title IV of Pub. L. 103–322, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1902. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Act note set out under section 10101 of this title and Tables.

The Violence Against Women Act of 2000, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), is div. B of Pub. L. 106–386, Oct. 28, 2000, 114 Stat. 1491. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2000 Act note set out under section 10101 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 3796gg–0 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2002 of Pub. L. 90–351 was renumbered section 2007 and is classified to section 10446 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 107–273, div. A, title IV, §403, Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1791, provided that: "This title \[enacting this section and sections 10443 to 10445 of this title and former section 3796gg–0d of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, amending sections 10446 to 10450 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as a note under section 10101 of this title\] shall take effect 90 days after this bill becomes law \[Nov. 2, 2002\]."

[1 So in original. Probably should be "title IV".](#10442_1)