### §681.[1](#680_1_target) Disposition of infrastructure related to E–LORAN

(a) In General.—The Secretary may not carry out activities related to the dismantling or disposal of infrastructure comprising the LORAN–C system until the date on which the Secretary provides to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate notice of a determination by the Secretary that such infrastructure is not required to provide a positioning, navigation, and timing system to provide redundant capability in the event the Global Positioning System signals are disrupted.

(b) Exception.—Subsection (a) does not apply to activities necessary for the safety of human life.

(c) Disposition of Property.—

(1) In general.—On any date after the notification is made under subsection (a), the Administrator of General Services, acting on behalf of the Secretary, may, notwithstanding any other provision of law, sell any real and personal property under the administrative control of the Coast Guard and used for the LORAN–C system, subject to such terms and conditions that the Secretary believes to be necessary to protect government interests and program requirements of the Coast Guard.

(2) Availability of proceeds.—

(A) Availability of proceeds.—The proceeds of such sales, less the costs of sale incurred by the General Services Administration, shall be deposited as offsetting collections into the Coast Guard "Environmental Compliance and Restoration" account and, without further appropriation, shall be available until expended for—

(i) environmental compliance and restoration purposes associated with the LORAN–C system;

(ii) the costs of securing and maintaining equipment that may be used as a backup to the Global Positioning System or to meet any other Federal navigation requirement;

(iii) the demolition of improvements on such real property; and

(iv) the costs associated with the sale of such real and personal property, including due diligence requirements, necessary environmental remediation, and reimbursement of expenses incurred by the General Services Administration.

  

(B) Other environmental compliance and restoration activities.—After the completion of activities described in subparagraph (A), the unexpended balances of such proceeds shall be available for any other environmental compliance and restoration activities of the Coast Guard.

(Added Pub. L. 114–120, title VI, §610(a)(1), Feb. 8, 2016, 130 Stat. 83.)

[1 Another section 681 is set out in chapter 18 of this title.](#681_1)