### §8002. Definitions

In this chapter:

#### (1) ASME/ANSI

The term "ASME/ANSI" as applied to a safety standard means such a standard that is accredited by the American National Standards Institute and published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

#### (2) Barrier

The term "barrier" includes a natural or constructed topographical feature that prevents unpermitted access by children to a swimming pool, and, with respect to a hot tub, a lockable cover.

#### (3) Commission

The term "Commission" means the Consumer Product Safety Commission.

#### (4) Covered entity

The term "covered entity" means—

(A) a State; or

(B) an Indian Tribe.

#### (5) Indian Tribe

The term "Indian Tribe" has the meaning given that term in section 5304(e) of title 25.

#### (6) Main drain

The term "main drain" means a submerged suction outlet typically located at the bottom of a pool or spa to conduct water to a recirculating pump.

#### (7) Safety vacuum release system

The term "safety vacuum release system" means a vacuum release system capable of providing vacuum release at a suction outlet caused by a high vacuum occurrence due to a suction outlet flow blockage.

#### (8) Swimming pool; spa

The term "swimming pool" or "spa" means any outdoor or indoor structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing, including in-ground and above-ground structures, and includes hot tubs, spas, portable spas, and non-portable wading pools.

#### (9) Unblockable drain

The term "unblockable drain" means a drain of any size and shape that a human body cannot sufficiently block to create a suction entrapment hazard.

#### (10) State

The term "State" has the meaning given such term in section 2052(a) of this title, and includes the Northern Mariana Islands. For purposes of eligibility for the grants authorized under section 8004 of this title, such term shall also include any political subdivision of a State.

(Pub. L. 110–140, title XIV, §1403, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1795; Pub. L. 110–314, title II, §238(1), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3076; Pub. L. 112–10, div. B, title V, §1576(a), Apr. 15, 2011, 125 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 117–328, div. BB, title IV, §401, Dec. 29, 2022, 136 Stat. 5562.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2022**—Pars. (4) to (9). Pub. L. 117–328, §401(a), added par. (4) and redesignated former pars. (4) to (8) as (6) to (9), respectively. Former par. (9) redesignated (10).

Par. (10). Pub. L. 117–328, §401(a)(1), (b), redesignated par. (9) as (10) and substituted "section 2052(a) of this title" for "section 2052(10) of this title".

**2011**—Par. (8). Pub. L. 112–10 inserted at end "For purposes of eligibility for the grants authorized under section 8004 of this title, such term shall also include any political subdivision of a State."

**2008**—Par. (8). Pub. L. 110–314 added par. (8).

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140, set out as a note under section 1824 of Title 2, The Congress.