### §3461. Discriminatory taxes

It is the sense of the Congress that when a State, province, or other governmental entity of a NAFTA country discriminatorily enforces sales or other taxes so as to afford protection to domestic production or domestic service providers, such enforcement is in violation of the terms of the Agreement. When such discriminatory enforcement adversely affects United States producers of goods or United States service providers, the Trade Representative should pursue all appropriate remedies to obtain removal of such discriminatory enforcement, including invocation of the provisions of the Agreement.

(Pub. L. 103–182, title V, §511, Dec. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 2154.)

#### Repeal of Section

Pub. L. 116–113, title VI, §601, Jan. 29, 2020, 134 Stat. 78, provided that, effective on the date the USMCA enters into force, this section is repealed.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal effective on the date on which the USMCA enters into force, see section 601 of Pub. L. 116–113, set out as a note under section 3301 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 103–182, title V, §516, Dec. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 2160, provided that:

"(a) In General.—Except as provided in subsection (b), the provisions of this subtitle \[subtitle B (§§511–516) of title V of Pub. L. 103–182, enacting this part and section 2707 of this title, amending section 2242 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as a note under section 2707 of this title\] shall take effect on the date the Agreement enters into force with respect to the United States \[Jan. 1, 1994\].

"(b) Exception.—Section 515 \[enacting section 2707 of this title and provisions set out as a note under section 2707 of this title\] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 8, 1993\]."

*\[Pub. L. 116–113, title VI, §601, Jan. 29, 2020, 134 Stat. 78, provided that, effective on the date the USMCA enters into force, section 516 of Pub. L. 103–182, set out above, is repealed.\]*