### §1635k. Mandatory reporting of wholesale pork cuts

#### (a) Reporting

The corporate officers or officially designated representatives of each packer shall report to the Secretary information concerning the price and volume of wholesale pork cuts, as the Secretary determines is necessary and appropriate.

#### (b) Publication

The Secretary shall publish information reported under subsection (a) as the Secretary determines necessary and appropriate.

(Aug. 14, 1946, ch. 966, title II, §233, as added Pub. L. 111–239, §2(b)(1), Sept. 27, 2010, 124 Stat. 2501.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Negotiated Rulemaking Process

Pub. L. 111–239, §2(b)(2)–(4), Sept. 27, 2010, 124 Stat. 2501, as amended by Pub. L. 117–286, §4(a)(25), Dec. 27, 2022, 136 Stat. 4307, provided that:

"(2) Negotiated rulemaking.—The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a negotiated rulemaking process pursuant to subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, to negotiate and develop a proposed rule to implement the amendment made by paragraph (1) \[enacting this section\].

"(3) Negotiated rulemaking committee.—

"(A) Representation.—Any negotiated rulemaking committee established by the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to paragraph (2) shall include representatives from—

"(i) organizations representing swine producers;

"(ii) organizations representing packers of pork, processors of pork, retailers of pork, and buyers of wholesale pork;

"(iii) the Department of Agriculture; and

"(iv) among interested parties that participate in swine or pork production.

"(B) Inapplicability of chapter 10 of title 5, united states code.—Any negotiated rulemaking committee established by the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to paragraph (2) shall not be subject to chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code.

"(4) Timing of proposed and final rules.—In carrying out the negotiated rulemaking process under paragraph (2), the Secretary of Agriculture shall ensure that—

"(A) any recommendation for a proposed rule or report is provided to the Secretary of Agriculture not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Sept. 27, 2010\]; and

"(B) a final rule is promulgated not later than one and a half years after the date of the enactment of this Act."