### §1862*o*–1. Responsible conduct of research

The Director shall require that each institution that applies for financial assistance from the Foundation for science and engineering research or education describe in its grant proposal a plan to provide appropriate training and oversight in the responsible and ethical conduct of research to undergraduate students, graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, faculty, and other senior personnel participating in the proposed research project, including—

(1) mentor training and mentorship;

(2) training to raise awareness of potential research security threats; and

(3) Federal export control, disclosure, and reporting requirements.

(Pub. L. 110–69, title VII, §7009, Aug. 9, 2007, 121 Stat. 680; Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, §10337, Aug. 9, 2022, 136 Stat. 1553.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the America COMPETES Act, also known as the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Act, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–167 substituted "postdoctoral researchers, faculty, and other senior personnel" for "and postdoctoral researchers" and ", including—" and pars. (1) to (3) for period at end.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 7001 of Pub. L. 110–69, set out as a note under section 1862o of this title.