### §7551. Definitions

In this chapter:

(1) The term "ARMS Initiative" means the Armament Retooling and Manufacturing Support Initiative authorized by this chapter.

(2) The term "eligible facility" means a Government-owned, contractor-operated ammunition manufacturing facility, or a Government-owned, contractor-operated depot for the storage, maintenance, renovation, or demilitarization of ammunition, of the Department of the Army that is in an active, inactive, layaway, or caretaker status.

(3) The term "property manager" includes any person or entity managing an eligible facility made available under the ARMS Initiative through a property management contract.

(4) The term "property management contract" includes facility use contracts, site management contracts, leases, and other agreements entered into under the authority of this chapter.

(5) The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Army.

(Added Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title III, §344(a)(1)\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–67, §4551; amended Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title III, §323(a), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3193; renumbered §7551, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(d), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1839.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 4551 of this title as this section.

**2006**—Par. (2). Pub. L. 109–163, §323(a), inserted ", or a Government-owned, contractor-operated depot for the storage, maintenance, renovation, or demilitarization of ammunition," after "manufacturing facility".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Guidance Regarding Use of Organic Industrial Base

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title III, §323, Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1353, provided that: "Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 12, 2017\], the Secretary of the Army shall establish clear and prescriptive guidance on the process for conducting make-or-buy analyses for Army requirements, including the use of the organic industrial base."

#### Inclusion of Certain Industrial Plants in the Armament Retooling and Manufacturing Support Initiative

Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title III, §323, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2076, as amended by Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §809(b)(8), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1841, provided that: "During the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 23, 2016\], the Secretary of Defense may treat a Government-owned, contractor-operated industrial plant of the Department of Defense as an eligible facility under section 7551(2) of title 10, United States Code."

#### Consideration of Army Arsenals' Capabilities To Fulfill Manufacturing Requirements

Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title III, §323, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 733, provided that:

"(a) Consideration of Capability of Arsenals.—When undertaking a make-or-buy analysis, a program executive officer or program manager of a military service or Defense Agency shall consider the capability of arsenals owned by the United States to fulfill a manufacturing requirement.

"(b) Notification of Solicitations.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 26, 2013\], the Secretary of Defense shall establish and begin implementation of a system for ensuring that the arsenals owned by the United States are notified of any solicitation that fulfills a manufacturing requirement for which there is no or limited domestic commercial source and which may be appropriate for manufacturing within an arsenal owned by the United States."