### §305. Regulations

The Federal Maritime Commission may prescribe regulations to carry out its duties and powers.

(Pub. L. 109–304, §4, Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1489.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                 |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 305                | 46 App.:1111(c) (related to rules and regulations). | June 29, 1936, ch. 858, title II, §201(c) (related to rules and regulations), 49 Stat. 1986. |
|                    | 46 App.:1716.                                       | Pub. L. 98–237, §17, Mar. 20, 1984, 98 Stat. 84.                                             |

The words "to carry out its duties and powers" are substituted for "in regard to its procedure and the conduct of its business" in 46 App. U.S.C. 1111(c) and "to carry out this chapter" in 46 App. U.S.C. 1716(a) for consistency in the revised title. The text of 46 App. U.S.C. 1716(b) is omitted as executed and obsolete.

#### Transparency in Unfinished Regulatory Proceedings

Pub. L. 115–282, title VII, §712, Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4298, provided that:

"(a) In General.—Beginning not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act \[Dec. 4, 2018\], the Federal Maritime Commission shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives biannual reports that describe the Commission's progress toward addressing the issues raised in each unfinished regulatory proceeding, regardless of whether the proceeding is subject to a statutory or regulatory deadline.

"(b) Format of Reports.—Each report under subsection (a) shall, among other things, clearly identify for each unfinished regulatory proceeding—

"(1) the popular title;

"(2) the current stage of the proceeding;

"(3) an abstract of the proceeding;

"(4) what prompted the action in question;

"(5) any applicable statutory, regulatory, or judicial deadline;

"(6) the associated docket number;

"(7) the date the rulemaking was initiated;

"(8) a date for the next action; and

"(9) if a date for next action identified in the previous report is not met, the reason for the delay."