### §1816b. Architect of the Capitol, authority for personal services contracts with legal entities

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Architect of the Capitol is authorized to contract for personal services with any firm, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity in the same manner as he is authorized to contract for personal services with individuals under the provisions of section 6101 of title 41.

(Pub. L. 96–558, Dec. 19, 1980, 94 Stat. 3263.)

#### Codification

In text, "section 6101 of title 41" substituted for "section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (41 U.S.C. 5)" on authority of Pub. L. 111–350, §6(c), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3854, which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

Section was classified to section 6a–2 of former Title 41, prior to the enactment of Title 41, Public Contracts, by Pub. L. 111–350, §3, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3677.

#### Authorizing Payments Under Service Contracts During the Coronavirus Emergency

Pub. L. 116–136, div. B, title IX, §19005, Mar. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 578, provided that:

"(a) Authorizing Payments.—Notwithstanding section 3324(a) of title 31, United States Code, or any other provision of law and subject to subsection (b), if the employees of a contractor with a service contract with the Architect of the Capitol are furloughed or otherwise unable to work during closures, stop work orders, or reductions in service arising from or related to the impacts of coronavirus, the Architect of the Capitol may continue to make the payments provided for under the contract for the weekly salaries and benefits of such employees for not more than 16 weeks.

"(b) Availability of Appropriations.—The authority of the Architect of the Capitol to make payments under the authority of subsection (a) is subject to the availability of appropriations to make such payments.

"(c) Regulations.—The Architect of the Capitol shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section."

\[For definition of "coronavirus" as used in section 19005 of Pub. L. 116–136, set out above, see section 23005 of Pub. L. 116–136, set out as a note under section 162b of this title.\]