### §2212. Inland waterway transportation

#### (a) Construction

One-half of the costs of construction—

(1) of each project authorized by title III of this Act,

(2) of the project authorized by section 652(j) of this title, and

(3) allocated to inland navigation for the project authorized by section 844 of this Act,

  

shall be paid only from amounts appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury. One-half of such costs shall be paid only from amounts appropriated from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund. For purposes of this subsection, the term “construction” shall include planning, designing, engineering, surveying, the acquisition of all lands, easements, and rights-of-way necessary for the project, including lands for disposal of dredged material, and relocations necessary for the project.

#### (b) Operation and maintenance

The Federal share of the cost of operation and maintenance of any project for navigation on the inland waterways is 100 percent.

#### (c) Authorizations from general fund

Any Federal responsibility—

(1) with respect to a project authorized by title III or section 652(j) of this title, or

(2) with respect to the portion of the project authorized by section 844 allocated to inland navigation,

  

which responsibility is not provided for in subsection (a) of this section shall be paid only from amounts appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury.

(Pub. L. 99–662, title I, §102, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4084.)

#### References in Text

Title III of this Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1) and (c)(1), is title III of Pub. L. 99–662, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4109, consisting of sections 301 and 302. The projects authorized by title III probably mean the projects authorized by section 301 of Pub. L. 99–662, which is not classified to the Code. Section 302 of Pub. L. 99–662, which established the Inland Waterways Users Board, is classified to section 2251 of this title.

Section 844 of this Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(3) and (c)(2), is section 844 of Pub. L. 99–662, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4177, which is not classified to the Code.