### §2213a. Treatment of certain benefits and costs

#### (a) In general

In the case of a flood risk management or coastal storm risk management project in a region of moderate or high seismic hazard, for the purpose of a benefit-cost analysis for the project, the Secretary shall not include in that analysis any additional design and construction costs resulting from addressing seismic concerns.

#### (b) Savings provision

Except with respect to the benefit-cost analysis, the additional costs referred to in subsection (a) shall be—

(1) included in the total project cost; and

(2) subject to cost-share requirements otherwise applicable to the project.

(Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title I, §152, Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2658; Pub. L. 117–263, div. H, title LXXXI, §8380, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3828.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2022**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 117–263 substituted "a flood risk management or coastal storm risk management project in a region" for "flood risk management project that incidentally generates seismic safety benefits in regions".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### "Secretary" Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of div. AA of Pub. L. 116–260, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.