### §544. Dependent school children

(a) The Secretary may provide, out of funds appropriated to or for the use of the Coast Guard, for the primary and secondary schooling of dependents of Coast Guard personnel stationed outside the continental United States at costs for any given area not in excess of those of the Department of Defense for the same area, when it is determined by the Secretary that the schools, if any, available in the locality are unable to provide adequately for the education of those dependents.

(b) Whenever the Secretary, under such regulations as he may prescribe, determines that schools located in the same area in which a Coast Guard facility is located are not accessible by public means of transportation on a regular basis, he may provide, out of funds appropriated to or for the use of the Coast Guard, for the transportation of dependents of Coast Guard personnel between the schools serving the area and the Coast Guard facility.

(Added Pub. L. 91–278, §1(14), June 12, 1970, 84 Stat. 306, §657; amended Pub. L. 93–430, §5, Oct. 1, 1974, 88 Stat. 1182; renumbered §544 and amended Pub. L. 113–281, title II, §214(b)(1)(C), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3033.)

#### Amendments

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–281 renumbered section 657 of this title as this section and, in subsec. (a), substituted "The Secretary may" for "Except as otherwise authorized by the Act of September 30, 1950 (20 U.S.C. 236–244), the Secretary may".

**1974**—Pub. L. 93–430 struck out "; transportation of" after "children" in section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (b), and added subsec. (a).