### §70102. Space launch system use policy

(a) In General.—The Space Launch System may be used for the following circumstances:

(1) Payloads and missions that contribute to extending human presence beyond low-Earth orbit and substantially benefit from the unique capabilities of the Space Launch System.

(2) Other payloads and missions that substantially benefit from the unique capabilities of the Space Launch System.

(3) On a space available basis, Federal Government or educational payloads that are consistent with NASA's mission for exploration beyond low-Earth orbit.

(4) Compelling circumstances, as determined by the Administrator.

  

(b) Agreements With Foreign Entities.—The Administrator may plan, negotiate, or implement agreements with foreign entities for the launch of payloads for international collaborative efforts relating to science and technology using the Space Launch System.

(c) Compelling Circumstances.—Not later than 30 days after the date the Administrator makes a determination under subsection (a)(4), the Administrator shall transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives written notification of the Administrator's intent to select the Space Launch System for a specific mission under that subsection, including justification for the determination.

(Pub. L. 111–314, §3, Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3427; Pub. L. 114–90, title I, §117(a)(3), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 717.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                      |
| ------------------ | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 70102(a)           | 42 U.S.C. 2465a(a).  | Pub. L. 101–611, title I, §112(a), (c), (d), Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3198, 3199. |
| 70102(b)           | 42 U.S.C. 2465a(c).  |                                                                                   |
| 70102(c)           | 42 U.S.C. 2465a(d).  |                                                                                   |

#### Amendments

**2015**—Pub. L. 114–90 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to space shuttle use policy.