### §4042. Private right of action

#### (a) In general

Any person aggrieved by a violation of this chapter may in a civil action—

(1) obtain any appropriate equitable or declaratory relief with respect to the violation;

(2) recover all other appropriate relief, including monetary damages; and

(3) be a representative party on behalf of members of a class or be a member of a class, in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, notwithstanding any previous agreement to the contrary.

#### (b) Costs and attorney fees

The court may award to a person aggrieved by a violation of this chapter who prevails in an action brought under subsection (a) the costs of the action, including a reasonable attorney fee.

(Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888, title VIII, §802, as added Pub. L. 111–275, title III, §303(a), Oct. 13, 2010, 124 Stat. 2877; amended Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, §547(a), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1378.)

#### References in Text

The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 597a of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 116–92 added par. (3).

#### Construction

Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, §547(b), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1378, provided that: "The amendments made by subsection (a) \[amending this section\] shall not be construed to imply that a person aggrieved by a violation of such Act \[the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.)\] did not have a right to bring a civil action as a representative party on behalf of members of a class or be a member of a class in a civil action before the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 20, 2019\]."