### §153902. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, historical, and educational and are—

(1) to foster and perpetuate the memory of the service of Yeomen (F) in the United States Naval Reserve Force of the United States Navy during World War I;

(2) to preserve the memories and incidents of their association in World War I by the encouragement of historical research concerning the service of Yeomen (F);

(3) to cherish, maintain, and extend the institutions of American freedom by the promotion of celebrations of all patriotic anniversaries;

(4) to foster true patriotism and love of country; and

(5) to aid in securing for mankind all the blessings of liberty.

(Pub. L. 105–225, Aug. 12, 1998, 112 Stat. 1431; Pub. L. 113–237, §3(c)(8)(C), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 2841.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                                                 | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                            |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 153902             | 36:139 (words beginning with "for patriotic, historical, and educational purposes"). | June 15, 1936, ch. 546, §1 (words beginning with "for patriotic, historical, and educational purposes"), 49 Stat. 1506. |

In clauses (1) and (2), the term "Yoemen (f)" is used (despite the inconsistency with section 153901 of the revised title) for consistency with section 1 of the Act of June 15, 1936.

In clause (1), the words "World War I" are substituted for "the World War" for clarity.

#### Amendments

**2014**—Pars. (1), (2). Pub. L. 113–237 substituted "Yeomen (F)" for "Yoemen (f)".

#### Change of Name

References to Naval Reserve, other than references to Naval Reserve regarding the United States Naval Reserve Retired List, deemed to refer to Navy Reserve, see section 515(h) of Pub. L. 109–163, set out as a note under section 10101 of Title 10, Armed Forces.