### §4956. Authority to provide certain types of technical assistance

(a) Assistance Relating to Certain Non-defense Contracts.—The procurement technical assistance furnished by eligible entities assisted by the Department of Defense under this chapter may include technical assistance relating to contracts entered into with (1) Federal departments and agencies other than the Department of Defense, and (2) State and local governments.

(b) Information Relating to Assistance and Other Programs Available.—An eligible entity assisted by the Department of Defense under this chapter also may furnish information relating to assistance and other programs available pursuant to the Defense Conversion, Reinvestment, and Transition Assistance Act of 1992.

(c) Education on Requirements Applicable to Small Businesses Under Certain Regulations.—An eligible entity assisted by the Department of Defense under this chapter also may furnish education on the requirements applicable to small businesses under the regulations issued—

(1) under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778), and on compliance with those requirements; and

(2) under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638), and on compliance with those requirements.

(Added Pub. L. 102–484, div. D, title XLII, §4236(a)(1)(B), Oct. 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 2691, §2418; amended Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title VIII, §823(b), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3436; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XVII, §1708, Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1809; renumbered §4956 and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1872(a)(9), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4289.)

#### References in Text

The Defense Conversion, Reinvestment, and Transition Assistance Act of 1992, referred to in subsec. (b), is division D of Pub. L. 102–484, Oct. 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 2658. For complete classification of division D to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2500 of this title and Tables.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283 renumbered section 2418 of this title as this section and inserted headings in subsecs. (a) to (c). Directory language transferring this section to "chapter 385" was executed as if it had read "chapter 388" to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.