### §426i–1. Construction of shoreline protection projects by non-Federal interests

#### (a) Authority

Non-Federal interests are authorized to undertake shoreline protection projects on the coastline of the United States, subject to obtaining any permits required pursuant to Federal and State laws in advance of actual construction.

#### (b) Studies and engineering

#### (1) By non-Federal interests

A non-Federal interest may prepare, for review and approval by the Secretary, the necessary studies and engineering for any construction to be undertaken under subsection (a) of this section.

#### (2) By Secretary

Upon request of an appropriate non-Federal interest, the Secretary may undertake all necessary studies and engineering for any construction to be undertaken under subsection (a) of this section and provide technical assistance in obtaining all necessary permits for such construction if the non-Federal interest contracts with the Secretary to furnish the United States funds for the studies and engineering during the period that the studies and engineering will be conducted.

#### (c) Completion of studies

The Secretary is authorized to complete and transmit to the appropriate non-Federal interests any study for shoreline protection which was initiated before October 31, 1992, or, upon the request of such non-Federal interest, to terminate the study and transmit the partially completed study to the non-Federal interest for completion. Studies subject to this subsection shall be completed without regard to the requirements of subsection (b) of this section.

#### (d) Authority to carry out improvement

#### (1) In general

Any non-Federal interest which has received from the Secretary pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) of this section a favorable recommendation to carry out a shoreline protection project or separable element thereof, based on the results of completed studies and engineering for the project or element, may carry out the project or element if a final environmental impact statement has been filed for the project or element.

#### (2) Permits

Any plan of improvement proposed to be implemented in accordance with this subsection shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements for obtaining the appropriate permits required under the Secretary's authority and such permits shall be granted subject to the non-Federal interest's acceptance of the terms and conditions of such permits if the Secretary determines that the applicable regulatory criteria and procedures have been satisfied.

#### (3) Monitoring

The Secretary shall monitor any project for which permits are granted under this subsection in order to ensure that such project is constructed (and, in those cases where such activities will not be the responsibility of the Secretary, operated and maintained) in accordance with the terms and conditions of such permits.

#### (e) Reimbursement

#### (1) General rule

Subject to the enactment of appropriation Acts, the Secretary is authorized to reimburse any non-Federal interest an amount equal to the estimate of the Federal share, without interest, of the cost of any authorized shoreline protection project, or separable element thereof, constructed under this section—

(A) if, after authorization and before initiation of construction of the project or separable element, the Secretary approves the plans for construction of such project by such non-Federal interest and enters into a written agreement with the non-Federal interest with respect to the project or separable element (including the terms of cooperation); and

(B) if the Secretary finds, after a review of studies and engineering prepared pursuant to this section, that construction of the project or separable element is economically justified and environmentally acceptable.

#### (2) Matters to be considered in reviewing plans

In reviewing plans under this subsection, the Secretary shall consider budgetary and programmatic priorities and other factors that the Secretary deems appropriate.

#### (3) Monitoring

The Secretary shall regularly monitor and audit any project for shore protection constructed under this section by a non-Federal interest in order to ensure that such construction is in compliance with the plans approved by the Secretary and that the costs are reasonable.

#### (4) Limitation on reimbursements

No reimbursement shall be made under this section unless and until the Secretary has certified that the work for which reimbursement is requested has been performed in accordance with applicable permits or approved plans.

(Pub. L. 102–580, title II, §206, Oct. 31, 1992, 106 Stat. 4828; Pub. L. 104–303, title II, §227(c)(2), Oct. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 3700.)

#### Amendments

**1996**—Subsec. (e)(1)(A). Pub. L. 104–303 inserted before semicolon “and enters into a written agreement with the non-Federal interest with respect to the project or separable element (including the terms of cooperation)”.

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 3 of Pub. L. 102–580, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.