### §736. Reports to Congress

(a) Annual Reports.—Not less frequently than once each year, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that includes—

(1) with respect to whistleblower complaints filed under section 732 of this title during the year covered by the report—

(A) the number of such complaints filed;

(B) the disposition of such complaints; and

(C) the ways in which the Secretary addressed such complaints in which a positive determination was made by a supervisor under subsection (b)(1) of such section;

  

(2) the number of whistleblower complaints filed during the year covered by the report that are not included under paragraph (1), including—

(A) the method in which such complaints were filed;

(B) the disposition of such complaints; and

(C) the ways in which the Secretary addressed such complaints; and

  

(3) with respect to disclosures made by a contractor under section 4705 or 4712 of title 41—

(A) the number of complaints relating to such disclosures that were investigated by the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs during the year covered by the report;

(B) the disposition of such complaints; and

(C) the ways in which the Secretary addressed such complaints.

  

(b) Notice of Office of Special Counsel Determinations.—Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary receives from the Special Counsel information relating to a whistleblower complaint pursuant to section 1213 of title 5, the Secretary shall notify the appropriate committees of Congress of such information, including the determination made by the Special Counsel.

(c) Appropriate Committees of Congress.—In this section, the term "appropriate committees of Congress" means—

(1) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and

(2) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives.

(Added Pub. L. 114–223, div. A, title II, §247(a)(1), Sept. 29, 2016, 130 Stat. 889.)