### §2912. Availability and use of energy cost savings

(a) Availability.—An amount of the funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for a fiscal year that is equal to the amount of energy cost savings realized by the Department, including financial benefits resulting from shared energy savings contracts entered into under section 2913 of this title, and, in the case of operational energy, from both training and operational missions, shall remain available for obligation under subsection (b) or (c), as the case may be, until expended, without additional authorization or appropriation.

(b) Use.—Except as provided in subsection (c) with respect to operational energy cost savings, the Secretary of Defense shall provide that the amount that remains available for obligation under subsection (a) and the funds made available under section 2916(b)(2) of this title shall be used as follows:

(1) One-half of the amount shall be used for the implementation of additional energy resilience, mission assurance, weather damage repair and prevention, energy conservation, and energy security measures, including energy resilience and energy conservation construction projects, at buildings, facilities, or installations of the Department of Defense or related to vehicles and equipment of the Department, which are designated, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, by the head of the department, agency, or instrumentality that realized the savings referred to in subsection (a).

(2) One-half of the amount shall be used at the installation at which the savings were realized, as determined by the commanding officer of such installation consistent with applicable law and regulations, for—

(A) improvements to existing military family housing units;

(B) any unspecified minor construction project that will enhance the quality of life of personnel; or

(C) any morale, welfare, or recreation facility or service.

  

(c) Use of Operational Energy Cost Savings.—The amount that remains available for obligation under subsection (a) that relates to operational energy cost savings realized by the Department shall be used for the implementation of additional operational energy resilience, efficiencies, mission assurance, energy conservation, or energy security within the department, agency, or instrumentality that realized that savings.

(d) Treatment of Certain Financial Incentives.—Financial incentives received from gas or electric utilities under section 2913 of this title shall be credited to an appropriation designated by the Secretary of Defense. Amounts so credited shall be merged with the appropriation to which credited and shall be available for the same purposes and the same period as the appropriation with which merged.

(Added Pub. L. 109–364, div. B, title XXVIII, §2851(a)(1), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2491; amended Pub. L. 112–239, div. B, title XXVIII, §2822, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2152; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1051(a)(26), div. B, title XXVIII, §2832, Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1562, 1858; Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title III, §312(h), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1711; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title III, §317, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1304; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title III, §317, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3519.)

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–283 inserted "and, in the case of operational energy, from both training and operational missions," after "under section 2913 of this title,".

**2019**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–92, §317(1), substituted "subsection (b) or (c), as the case may be," for "subsection (b)".

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–92, §317(2), substituted "Except as provided in subsection (c) with respect to operational energy cost savings, the Secretary of Defense" for "The Secretary of Defense" in introductory provisions.

Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 116–92, §317(3), (4), added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

**2018**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 115–232 inserted ", including energy resilience and energy conservation construction projects," after "energy security measures".

**2017**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 115–91, §2832, substituted "energy resilience, mission assurance, weather damage repair and prevention, energy conservation, and" for "energy conservation and".

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 115–91, §1051(a)(26), struck out subsec. (d). Text read as follows: "The Secretary of Defense shall include in the budget material submitted to Congress in connection with the submission of the budget for a fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31 a separate statement of the amounts available for obligation under this section in that fiscal year."

**2013**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 112–239 inserted "and energy security" after "additional energy conservation".

#### Transfer of Funds for Energy and Water Efficiency in Federal Buildings

Pub. L. 109–148, div. A, title VIII, §8054, Dec. 30, 2005, 119 Stat. 2710, provided that: "Appropriations available under the heading 'Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide' for the current fiscal year and hereafter for increasing energy and water efficiency in Federal buildings may, during their period of availability, be transferred to other appropriations or funds of the Department of Defense for projects related to increasing energy and water efficiency, to be merged with and to be available for the same general purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or fund to which transferred."

Similar provisions for specified fiscal years were contained in the following prior appropriation acts:

Pub. L. 108–287, title VIII, §8058, Aug. 5, 2004, 118 Stat. 983.

Pub. L. 108–87, title VIII, §8058, Sept. 30, 2003, 117 Stat. 1085.

Pub. L. 107–248, title VIII, §8059, Oct. 23, 2002, 116 Stat. 1550.

Pub. L. 107–117, div. A, title VIII, §8064, Jan. 10, 2002, 115 Stat. 2261.

Pub. L. 106–259, title VIII, §8063, Aug. 9, 2000, 114 Stat. 688.

Pub. L. 106–79, title VIII, §8066, Oct. 25, 1999, 113 Stat. 1245.

Pub. L. 105–262, title VIII, §8066, Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2312.

Pub. L. 105–56, title VIII, §8072, Oct. 8, 1997, 111 Stat. 1235.

Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, §101(b) \[title VIII, §8081\], Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–71, 3009–104.

Pub. L. 104–61, title VIII, §8097, Dec. 1, 1995, 109 Stat. 671.

Pub. L. 103–139, title VIII, §8149, Nov. 11, 1993, 107 Stat. 1475.