### §643. Certification and report to Congress

#### (a) Certification

Not later than 1 year after May 29, 2015, the Secretary shall certify to Congress that all personnel referred to in section 402(a) [1](#643_1_target) have successfully completed the training required under that section.

#### (b) Report to Congress

Not later than 1 year after May 29, 2015, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall report to Congress with respect to the overall effectiveness of the program required by this subchapter, the number of cases reported by Department personnel in which human trafficking was suspected, and, of those cases, the number of cases that were confirmed cases of human trafficking.

(Pub. L. 114–22, title IX, §903, May 29, 2015, 129 Stat. 265.)

#### References in Text

Section 402(a), referred to in subsec. (a), probably should be a reference to section 902(a), meaning section 902(a) of Pub. L. 114–22, which is classified to section 642(a) of this title. Section 402 of Pub. L. 114–22, which is classified to section 21301 of Title 34, Crime Control and Law Enforcement, does not contain a subsec. (a) and does not relate to the training of personnel.

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original "this title", meaning title IX of Pub. L. 114–22, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title IX to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015, and not as part of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 which comprises this chapter.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#643_1)