### §3301. Definitions

For purposes of this Act:

#### (1) Agreement

The term "Agreement" means the North American Free Trade Agreement approved by the Congress under section 3311(a) of this title.

#### (2) HTS

The term "HTS" means the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.

#### (3) Mexico

Any reference to Mexico shall be considered to be a reference to the United Mexican States.

#### (4) NAFTA country

Except as provided in section 3332 of this title, the term "NAFTA country" means—

(A) Canada for such time as the Agreement is in force with respect to, and the United States applies the Agreement to, Canada; and

(B) Mexico for such time as the Agreement is in force with respect to, and the United States applies the Agreement to, Mexico.

#### (5) International Trade Commission

The term "International Trade Commission" means the United States International Trade Commission.

#### (6) Trade Representative

The term "Trade Representative" means the United States Trade Representative.

(Pub. L. 103–182, §2, Dec. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 2060.)

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 103–182, Dec. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 2057, known as the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

The North American Free Trade Agreement, referred to in par. (1), is not set out in the Code.

The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, referred to in par. (2), is not set out in the Code. See Publication of Harmonized Tariff Schedule note set out under section 1202 of this title.

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 103–182, §1(a), Dec. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 2057, provided that: "This Act \[see Tables for classification\] may be cited as the 'North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act'."