### §7814. Actions to promote freedom of information

#### (a) Actions

#### (1) In general

The President is authorized to take such actions as may be necessary to increase the availability of information inside North Korea by increasing the availability of sources of information not controlled by the Government of North Korea, including sources such as radios capable of receiving broadcasting from outside North Korea, USB drives, micro SD cards, audio players, video players, cell phones, wi-fi, wireless internet, web pages, internet, wireless telecommunications, and other electronic media that shares information.

#### (2) Distribution

In accordance with the sense of Congress described in section 7813 of this title, the President, acting through the Secretary of State, is authorized to distribute or provide grants to distribute information receiving devices, electronically readable devices, and other informational sources into North Korea, including devices and informational sources specified in paragraph (1). To carry out this paragraph, the President is authorized to issue regulations to facilitate the free-flow of information into North Korea.

#### (3) Research and development grant program

In accordance with the authorization described in paragraphs (1) and (2) to increase the availability and distribution of sources of information inside North Korea, the President, acting through the Secretary of State, is authorized to establish a grant program to make grants to eligible entities to develop or distribute (or both) new products or methods to allow North Koreans easier access to outside information. Such program may involve public-private partnerships.

#### (4) Culture

In accordance with the sense of Congress described in section 7813 of this title, the Broadcasting Board of Governors may broadcast American, Korean, Chinese, and other popular music, television, movies, and popular cultural references as part of its programming.

#### (5) Rights and laws

In accordance with the sense of Congress described in section 7813 of this title, the Broadcasting Board of Governors should broadcast to North Korea in the Korean language information on rights, laws, and freedoms afforded through the North Korean Constitution, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and any other applicable treaties or international agreements to which North Korea is bound.

#### (6) Religious minorities

Efforts to improve information access under this subsection should include religious communities and should be coordinated with the Office of International Religious Freedom to ensure maximum impact in improving the rights of religious persons in North Korea.

#### (7) Broadcasting report

Not later than—

(A) 180 days after July 20, 2018, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Broadcasting Board of Governors, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that sets forth a detailed plan for improving broadcasting content for the purpose of targeting new audiences and increasing listenership; and

(B) 1 year after July 20, 2018, and annually thereafter for each of the next 5 years, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Broadcasting Board of Governors, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report including—

(i) a description of the effectiveness of actions taken pursuant to this section, including data reflecting audience and listenership, device distribution and usage, and technological development and advancement usage;

(ii) the amount of funds expended by the United States Government pursuant to section 403; [1](#7814_1_target) and

(iii) other appropriate information necessary to fully inform Congress of efforts related to this section.

#### (b) Authorization of appropriations

#### (1) In general

There are authorized to be appropriated to the President $3,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2005 through 2022 to carry out subsection (a).

#### (2) Availability

Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations under paragraph (1) are authorized to remain available until expended.

#### (c) Report

Not later than 1 year after October 18, 2004, and annually through 2022, the Secretary of State, after consultation with the heads of other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report, in classified form, on actions taken pursuant to this section.

#### (d) Information technology study

Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2015,[1](#7814_1_target) the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a classified report that sets forth a detailed plan for making unrestricted, unmonitored, and inexpensive electronic mass communications available to the people of North Korea.

(Pub. L. 108–333, title I, §104, Oct. 18, 2004, 118 Stat. 1291; Pub. L. 110–346, §7, Oct. 7, 2008, 122 Stat. 3941; Pub. L. 112–172, §6, Aug. 16, 2012, 126 Stat. 1309; Pub. L. 114–122, title III, §301, Feb. 18, 2016, 130 Stat. 112; Pub. L. 115–198, §§5, 7(b), July 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 1521, 1523.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 403, referred to in subsec. (a)(7)(B)(ii), may mean section 403 of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, Pub. L. 114–122, which authorized appropriations to carry out various provisions in this chapter and was classified to section 9253 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–198, §9, July 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 1525. There is no section 403 of Pub. L. 108–333, of which this section is a part.

The date of the enactment of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2015, referred to in subsec. (d), probably means the date of enactment of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, Pub. L. 114–122, which was approved Feb. 18, 2016.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–198, §5, designated existing provisions as par. (1), inserted heading, inserted ", USB drives, micro SD cards, audio players, video players, cell phones, wi-fi, wireless internet, web pages, internet, wireless telecommunications, and other electronic media that shares information" before period at end, and added pars. (2) to (7).

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 115–198, §7(b)(1), substituted "$3,000,000" for "$2,000,000" and "2022" for "2017".

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 115–198, §7(b)(2), substituted "2022" for "2017".

**2016**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 114–122 added subsec. (d).

**2012**—Subsecs. (b)(1), (c). Pub. L. 112–172 substituted "2017" for "2012".

**2008**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 110–346, §7(1), substituted "2012" for "2008".

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 110–346, §7(2), substituted "annually through 2012" for "in each of the 3 years thereafter".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Broadcasting Board of Governors renamed United States Agency for Global Media pursuant to section 6204(a)(22) of this title. The renaming was effectuated by notice to congressional appropriations committees dated May 24, 2018, and became effective Aug. 22, 2018.

  

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under section 301 of Pub. L. 114–122 (adding subsec. (d) of this section) delegated to Secretary of State by Memorandum of President of the United States, May 18, 2016, 81 F.R. 37479, set out as a note under section 9212 of this title.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#7814_1)