### §125. Annual report on intelligence activities of the Department of Homeland Security

#### (a) In general

For each fiscal year and along with the budget materials submitted in support of the budget of the Department of Homeland Security pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report for such fiscal year on each intelligence activity of each intelligence component of the Department, as designated by the Under Secretary, that includes the following:

(1) The amount of funding requested for each such intelligence activity.

(2) The number of full-time employees funded to perform each such intelligence activity.

(3) The number of full-time contractor employees (or the equivalent of full-time in the case of part-time contractor employees) funded to perform or in support of each such intelligence activity.

(4) A determination as to whether each such intelligence activity is predominantly in support of national intelligence or departmental missions.

(5) The total number of analysts of the Intelligence Enterprise of the Department that perform—

(A) strategic analysis; or

(B) operational analysis.

#### (b) Feasibility and advisability report

Not later than 120 days after December 19, 2014, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report that—

(1) examines the feasibility and advisability of including the budget request for all intelligence activities of each intelligence component of the Department that predominantly support departmental missions, as designated by the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, in the Homeland Security Intelligence Program; and

(2) includes a plan to enhance the coordination of department-wide intelligence activities to achieve greater efficiencies in the performance of the Department of Homeland Security intelligence functions.

#### (c) Intelligence component of the Department

In this section, the term "intelligence component of the Department" has the meaning given that term in section 101 of this title.

(Pub. L. 113–293, title III, §324, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 4004.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, and not as part of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 which comprises this chapter.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

"Congressional intelligence committees" means the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, see section 2 of Pub. L. 113–293, set out as a note under section 3003 of Title 50, War and National Defense.