### §4575a. Change in maximum rates of pay for statutory employees

#### (i) Fixed salary positions

For any position for which the Secretary of the Senate disburses the pay for the position and for which the specific amount of the rate of pay for the particular position is fixed by statute on the day before the effective date of the amendments made by this section, on and after such effective date the amount of the rate of pay for such position shall be fixed by the President pro tempore in an amount not to exceed the maximum rate of pay in effect under section 4575(f) of this title.

#### (ii) Positions with maximums

For any position for which the Secretary of the Senate disburses the pay for the position and for which the maximum rate of pay for the particular position is fixed by statute on the day before the effective date of the amendments made by this section, on and after such effective date the maximum rate of pay for such position shall be fixed by the President pro tempore, which shall not exceed the maximum rate of pay in effect under section 4575(f) of this title.

(Pub. L. 116–94, div. E, title II, §212(a)(1)(B), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 2774.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The effective date of the amendments made by this section, referred to in text, is the effective date of section 212 of Pub. L. 116–94, which is set out in a note below.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the later of the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after Jan. 1, 2020, or the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after Dec. 20, 2019, see section 212(c) of Pub. L. 116–94, set out as an Effective Date of 2019 Amendment note under section 282b of this title.