### §8628. Merchant vessels: supplies

(a) The Secretary of the Navy, under such regulations as he prescribes, may sell to a merchant ship such fuel and other supplies as may be required to meet its necessities if the ship is unable—

(1) to procure the supplies from other sources at its present location; and

(2) to proceed to the nearest port where they may be obtained without endangering the safety of the ship, the health and comfort of its personnel, or the safe condition of the property carried on it.

  

(b) Sales under this section shall be at such prices as the Secretary considers reasonable. Payment shall be made on a cash basis or on such other basis as will reasonably assure prompt payment. Amounts received from such a sale shall, unless otherwise directed by another provision of law, be credited to the current appropriation concerned and are available for the same purposes as that appropriation.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 448, §7228; renumbered §8628, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*             |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| 7228              | 34 U.S.C. 555f.      | June 4, 1954, ch. 264, §3, 68 Stat. 176. |

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7228 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.