### §191. Secretary of Defense: authority to provide for common performance of supply or service activities

(a) Authority.—Whenever the Secretary of Defense determines such action would be more effective, economical, or efficient, the Secretary may provide for the performance of a supply or service activity that is common to more than one military department by a single agency of the Department of Defense.

(b) Designation of Common Supply or Service Agency.—Any agency of the Department of Defense established under subsection (a) (or under the second sentence of section 125(d) of this title (as in effect before October 1, 1986)) for the performance of a supply or service activity referred to in such subsection shall be designated as a Defense Agency or a Department of Defense Field Activity.

(Added Pub. L. 99–433, title III, §301(a)(2), Oct. 1, 1986, 100 Stat. 1019; amended Pub. L. 100–26, §7(i)(1), Apr. 21, 1987, 101 Stat. 282.)

#### References in Text

Subsection (d) of section 125 of this title, referred to in subsec. (b), was repealed by section 301(b)(1) of Pub. L. 99–433.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 191 was renumbered section 202 of this title and subsequently repealed.

#### Amendments

**1987**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 100–26 substituted "October 1, 1986" for "the date of the enactment of the Goldwater-Nichols Department of Defense Reorganization Act of 1986".

#### Actions To Increase the Efficiency and Transparency of the Defense Logistics Agency

Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title IX, §924, Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1931, provided that:

"(a) System and Capability.—Not later than January 1, 2020, the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency and the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense shall jointly, in consultation with the customers served by the Agency, develop and implement—

"(1) a comprehensive system that enables customers of the Agency to view—

"(A) the inventory of items and materials available to customers from the Agency; and

"(B) the delivery status of items and materials that are in transit to customers; and

"(2) a predictive analytics capability designed to increase the efficiency of the system described in paragraph (1) by identifying emerging customer needs with respect to items and materials supplied by the Agency, including any emerging needs arising from the use of new weapon systems by customers.

"(b) Actions to Increase Efficiency.—Not later than January 1, 2020, the Director and the Chief Management Officer shall jointly—

"(1) develop a plan to reduce the rates charged by the Agency to customers, in aggregate—

"(A) by not less than 10 percent; or

"(B) if the Chief Management Officer determines that a reduction of rates in aggregate of 10 percent or more will create overall inefficiencies for the Department, by such percentage less than 10 percent as the Chief Management Officer considers appropriate to avoid such inefficiencies, but only after notifying the congressional defense committees \[Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives\] of such lesser percentage in reduction of rates pursuant to this subparagraph;

"(2) eliminate the duplication of services within the Agency; and

"(3) establish specific goals and metrics to ensure that the Agency is fulfilling its mission of providing items and materials to customers with sufficient speed and in sufficient quantities to ensure the lethality and readiness of warfighters.

"(c) Plan Required.—Not later than February 1, 2019, the Director and the Chief Management Officer shall jointly submit to the congressional defense committees a plan that describes how the Director and the Chief Management Officer will achieve compliance with the requirements of subsections (a) and (b)."

#### Comptroller General Review of Operations of Defense Logistics Agency

Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title IX, §917\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–232, directed the Comptroller General to review the operations of the Defense Logistics Agency and to submit to committees of Congress one or more reports setting forth the Comptroller General's findings not later than Feb. 1, 2002.

#### Comptroller General Review of Operations of Defense Information Systems Agency

Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title IX, §918\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–232, directed the Comptroller General to review the operations of the Defense Information Systems Agency and to submit to committees of Congress one or more reports setting forth the Comptroller General's findings not later than Feb. 1, 2002.

#### Reassessment of Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities

Pub. L. 99–433, title III, §303, Oct. 1, 1986, 100 Stat. 1023, directed Secretary of Defense to conduct a study of functions and organizational structure of Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities to determine the most effective, economical, or efficient means of providing supply or service activities common to more than one military department, with Secretary to submit a report to Congress not later than Oct. 1, 1987. The report was to include a study of improved application of computer systems to functions of Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities, including a plan for rapid replacement, where necessary, of existing automated data processing equipment with new equipment, and plans to achieve reductions in total number of members of Armed Forces and civilian employees assigned or detailed to permanent duty in Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities (other than National Security Agency) by 5 percent, 10 percent, and 15 percent of total number of such members and employees projected to be assigned or detailed to such duty on Sept. 30, 1988, together with a discussion of implications of each such reduction and a draft of any legislation that would be required to implement each such plan.