### §1339b. Wheat diversion programs; credits in establishment of State, county and farm acreage allotments for wheat

In the establishment of State, county, and farm acreage allotments for wheat under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended \[7 U.S.C. 1281 et seq.\], the acreage which is determined under regulations of the Secretary to have been diverted from the production of wheat under the special programs formulated pursuant to section 307 of this Act, section 339 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended \[7 U.S.C. 1339\], and section 124 of the Agricultural Act of 1961, shall be credited to the State, county, and farm as though such acreage had actually been devoted to the production of wheat.

(Pub. L. 87–703, title III, §327, Sept. 27, 1962, 76 Stat. 631.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, referred to in text, is act Feb. 16, 1938, ch. 30, 52 Stat. 31, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1281 of this title and Tables.

Section 307 of this Act and section 124 of the Agricultural Act of 1961, referred to in text, are, respectively, section 307 of Pub. L. 87–703 and section 124 of Pub. L. 87–128, which were formerly set out as notes under section 1334 of this title.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1962, and not as part of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 which comprises this chapter.