### Part D—William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program

#### Codification

Parts A to J of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, Pub. L. 89–329 ("the HEA"), would typically have been classified to parts A to J of this subchapter. However, part C of title IV of the HEA could not be classified to part C of this subchapter when it was enacted because it amended and related to various provisions of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, Pub. L. 88–452, which were classified to Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. As a result, parts D to J of title IV of the HEA were editorially designated as parts C to I of this subchapter to fill the gap left in the Code by the absence of a part C. That original part C of title IV of the HEA was subsequently repealed, and part C of title I of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 was redesignated to become a new part C of title IV of the HEA. In order to merge the pieces of the HEA together after the redesignation and logically realign the part structure of the HEA with that of the Code, part C of title IV of the HEA was editorially transferred from its original location in part C (§2751 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 34 of Title 42 to part C (§1087–51 et seq.) of this subchapter, and subsequent parts D to I of title IV of the HEA were redesignated as parts D to I of this subchapter. Part J of title IV of the HEA was omitted instead of redesignated as part J of this subchapter because it had already been transferred to another part of the HEA.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior part D, consisting of part E of title IV of Pub. L. 89–329, was redesignated part E of this subchapter.