### §290bb–43. Adult suicide prevention

#### (a) Grants

#### (1) In general

The Assistant Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities described in paragraph (2) to implement suicide prevention and intervention programs, for individuals who are 25 years of age or older, that are designed to raise awareness of suicide, establish referral processes, and improve care and outcomes for such individuals who are at risk of suicide.

#### (2) Eligible entities

To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall be a community-based primary care or behavioral health care setting, an emergency department, a State mental health agency (or State health agency with mental or behavioral health functions), public health agency, a territory of the United States, or an Indian tribe or tribal organization (as the terms "Indian tribe" and "tribal organization" are defined in section 5304 of title 25).

#### (3) Use of funds

The grants awarded under paragraph (1) shall be used to implement programs, in accordance with such paragraph, that include one or more of the following components:

(A) Screening for suicide risk, suicide intervention services, and services for referral for treatment for individuals at risk for suicide.

(B) Implementing evidence-based practices to provide treatment for individuals at risk for suicide, including appropriate followup services.

(C) Raising awareness and reducing stigma of suicide.

#### (b) Evaluations and technical assistance

The Assistant Secretary shall—

(1) evaluate the activities supported by grants awarded under subsection (a), and disseminate, as appropriate, the findings from the evaluation; and

(2) provide appropriate information, training, and technical assistance, as appropriate, to eligible entities that receive a grant under this section, in order to help such entities to meet the requirements of this section, including assistance with selection and implementation of evidence-based interventions and frameworks to prevent suicide.

#### (c) Duration

A grant under this section shall be for a period of not more than 5 years.

#### (d) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $30,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2022.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, §520L, as added Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title IX, §9009, Dec. 13, 2016, 130 Stat. 1243.)