### §290bb–37. Strengthening community crisis response systems

#### (a) In general

The Secretary shall award competitive grants to—

(1) State and local governments and Indian tribes and tribal organizations, to enhance community-based crisis response systems; or

(2) States to develop, maintain, or enhance a database of beds at inpatient psychiatric facilities, crisis stabilization units, and residential community mental health and residential substance use disorder treatment facilities, for adults with a serious mental illness, children with a serious emotional disturbance, or individuals with a substance use disorder.

#### (b) Applications

#### (1) In general

To receive a grant under subsection (a), an entity shall submit to the Secretary an application, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

#### (2) Community-based crisis response plan

An application for a grant under subsection (a)(1) shall include a plan for—

(A) promoting integration and coordination between local public and private entities engaged in crisis response, including first responders, emergency health care providers, primary care providers, law enforcement, court systems, health care payers, social service providers, and behavioral health providers;

(B) developing memoranda of understanding with public and private entities to implement crisis response services;

(C) addressing gaps in community resources for crisis intervention and prevention; and

(D) developing models for minimizing hospital readmissions, including through appropriate discharge planning.

#### (3) Beds database plan

An application for a grant under subsection (a)(2) shall include a plan for developing, maintaining, or enhancing a real-time, Internet-based bed database to collect, aggregate, and display information about beds in inpatient psychiatric facilities and crisis stabilization units, and residential community mental health and residential substance use disorder treatment facilities to facilitate the identification and designation of facilities for the temporary treatment of individuals in mental or substance use disorder crisis.

#### (c) Database requirements

A bed database described in this section is a database that—

(1) includes information on inpatient psychiatric facilities, crisis stabilization units, and residential community mental health and residential substance use disorder facilities in the State involved, including contact information for the facility or unit;

(2) provides real-time information about the number of beds available at each facility or unit and, for each available bed, the type of patient that may be admitted, the level of security provided, and any other information that may be necessary to allow for the proper identification of appropriate facilities for treatment of individuals in mental or substance use disorder crisis; and

(3) enables searches of the database to identify available beds that are appropriate for the treatment of individuals in mental or substance use disorder crisis.

#### (d) Evaluation

An entity receiving a grant under subsection (a)(1) shall submit to the Secretary, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require, a report, including an evaluation of the effect of such grant on—

(1) local crisis response services and measures for individuals receiving crisis planning and early intervention supports;

(2) individuals reporting improved functional outcomes; and

(3) individuals receiving regular followup care following a crisis.

#### (e) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $12,500,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2022.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, §520F, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, §3209, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1200; amended Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title IX, §9007, Dec. 13, 2016, 130 Stat. 1240.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–255 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section provided for grants to support the designation of hospitals and health centers as Emergency Mental Health Centers.