### §290bb–44. Assertive community treatment grant program

#### (a) In general

The Assistant Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities—

(1) to establish assertive community treatment programs for adults with a serious mental illness; or

(2) to maintain or expand such programs.

#### (b) Eligible entities

To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall be a State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe or tribal organization (as such terms are defined in section 5304 of title 25), mental health system, health care facility, or any other entity the Assistant Secretary deems appropriate.

#### (c) Special consideration

In selecting among applicants for a grant under this section, the Assistant Secretary may give special consideration to the potential of the applicant's program to reduce hospitalization, homelessness, and involvement with the criminal justice system while improving the health and social outcomes of the patient.

#### (d) Additional activities

The Assistant Secretary shall—

(1) not later than the end of fiscal year 2021, submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees on the grant program under this section, including an evaluation of—

(A) any cost savings and public health outcomes such as mortality, suicide, substance use disorders, hospitalization, and use of services;

(B) rates of involvement with the criminal justice system of patients;

(C) rates of homelessness among patients; and

(D) patient and family satisfaction with program participation; and

  

(2) provide appropriate information, training, and technical assistance to grant recipients under this section to help such recipients to establish, maintain, or expand their assertive community treatment programs.

#### (e) Authorization of appropriations

#### (1) In general

To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2022.

#### (2) Use of certain funds

Of the funds appropriated to carry out this section in any fiscal year, not more than 5 percent shall be available to the Assistant Secretary for carrying out subsection (d).

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, §520M, as added Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title IX, §9015, Dec. 13, 2016, 130 Stat. 1245.)