### §6381j. Research

#### (a) In general

The Secretary shall carry out, through grant or contract, research into the components of successful family literacy services, in order to—

(1) improve the quality of existing programs assisted under this subpart or other family literacy programs carried out under this chapter or the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act \[29 U.S.C. 3271 et seq.\]; and

(2) develop models for new programs to be carried out under this chapter or the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act.

#### (b) Scientifically based research on family literacy

#### (1) In general

From amounts reserved under section 6381a(b)(2) of this title, the National Institute for Literacy, in consultation with the Secretary, shall carry out research that—

(A) is scientifically based reading research; and

(B) determines—

(i) the most effective ways of improving the literacy skills of adults with reading difficulties; and

(ii) how family literacy services can best provide parents with the knowledge and skills the parents need to support their children's literacy development.

#### (2) Use of expert entity

The National Institute for Literacy, in consultation with the Secretary, shall carry out the research under paragraph (1) through an entity, including a Federal agency, that has expertise in carrying out longitudinal studies of the development of literacy skills in children and has developed effective interventions to help children with reading difficulties.

#### (c) Dissemination

The National Institute for Literacy shall disseminate, pursuant to section 6367 of this title, the results of the research described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section to State educational agencies and recipients of subgrants under this subpart.

(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, §1241, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, §101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1566.)

#### References in Text

The Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is title II of Pub. L. 113–128, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1608, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§3271 et seq.) of chapter 32 of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3101 of Title 29 and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1241 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 2801 of this title, prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 89–10 by Pub. L. 103–382.