### §17211. Definitions

In this part:

#### (1) Eligible entity

The term "eligible entity" means any of the following entities:

(A) An institution of higher education.

(B) A National Laboratory.

(C) A Federal research agency.

(D) A State research agency.

(E) A nonprofit research organization.

(F) An industrial entity or a multi-institutional consortium thereof.

#### (2) Institution of higher education

The term "institution of higher education" means—

(A) an institution of higher education (as defined in section 1001(a) of title 20); or

(B) a postsecondary vocational institution (as defined in section 1002(c) of title 20).

#### (3) Marine energy

The term "marine energy" means energy from—

(A) waves, tides, and currents in oceans, estuaries, and tidal areas;

(B) free flowing water in rivers, lakes, streams, and man-made channels;

(C) differentials in salinity and pressure gradients; and

(D) differentials in water temperature, including ocean thermal energy conversion.

#### (4) National laboratory

The term "National Laboratory" has the meaning given such term in section 15801(3) of this title.

#### (5) Water power

The term "water power" refers to hydropower, including conduit power, pumped storage, and marine energy technologies.

#### (6) Microgrid

The term "microgrid" has the meaning given such term in section 17231 of this title.

(Pub. L. 110–140, title VI, §632, as added Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, §3001(a), Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2479.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 17211, Pub. L. 110–140, title VI, §632, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1686, related to definitions of terms, prior to the general amendment of this part by Pub. L. 116–260.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

This part was formerly known as the "Marine and Hydrokinetic Renewable Energy Research and Development Act", see Short Title note formerly set out under section 17001 of this title.