### §654. Infrastructure Security Division

#### (a) Establishment

#### (1) In general

There is established in the Agency an Infrastructure Security Division.

#### (2) Assistant Director

The Infrastructure Security Division shall be headed by an Assistant Director for Infrastructure Security (in this section referred to as the "Assistant Director"), who shall—

(A) be at the level of Assistant Secretary within the Department;

(B) be appointed by the President without the advice and consent of the Senate; and

(C) report to the Director.

#### (3) Reference

Any reference to the Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be deemed to be a reference to the Assistant Director for Infrastructure Security.

#### (b) Functions

The Assistant Director shall—

(1) direct the critical infrastructure security efforts of the Agency;

(2) carry out, at the direction of the Director, the Chemical Facilities Anti-Terrorism Standards Program established under subchapter XVI and the secure handling of ammonium nitrate program established under part J of subchapter VIII, or any successor programs;

(3) fully participate in the mechanisms required under section 652(c)(7) of this title; and

(4) carry out such other duties and powers as prescribed by the Director.

(Pub. L. 107–296, title XXII, §2204, as added Pub. L. 115–278, §2(a), Nov. 16, 2018, 132 Stat. 4174.)

#### Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection Authorized To Serve as Assistant Director for Infrastructure Security

Pub. L. 115–278, §2(b)(4), Nov. 16, 2018, 132 Stat. 4175, provided that: "The individual serving as the Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection on the day before the date of enactment of this Act \[Nov. 16, 2018\] may continue to serve as the Assistant Director for Infrastructure Security on and after such date."