### §655. Enhancement of Federal and non-Federal cybersecurity

In carrying out the responsibilities under section 652 of this title, the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency shall—

(1) as appropriate, provide to State and local government entities, and upon request to private entities that own or operate critical information systems—

(A) analysis and warnings related to threats to, and vulnerabilities of, critical information systems; and

(B) in coordination with the Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, crisis management support in response to threats to, or attacks on, critical information systems;

  

(2) as appropriate, provide technical assistance, upon request, to the private sector and other government entities, in coordination with the Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, with respect to emergency recovery plans to respond to major failures of critical information systems; and

(3) fulfill the responsibilities of the Secretary to protect Federal information systems under subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 44.

(Pub. L. 107–296, title XXII, §2205, formerly title II, §223, Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2156; Pub. L. 110–53, title V, §531(b)(1)(A), Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 334; Pub. L. 113–283, §2(e)(3)(A), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3086; renumbered title XXII, §2205, and amended Pub. L. 115–278, §2(g)(2)(I), (9)(A)(i), Nov. 16, 2018, 132 Stat. 4178, 4180; Pub. L. 117–263, div. G, title LXXI, §7143(c)(6), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3663.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 143 of this title prior to renumbering by Pub. L. 115–278.

#### Amendments

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263 substituted "Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency" for "Director of Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security" in introductory provisions.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–278, §2(g)(9)(A)(i)(I), substituted "section 652 of this title" for "section 121 of this title" and "Director of Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security" for "Under Secretary appointed under section 113(a)(1)(H) of this title" in introductory provisions.

Par. (1)(B). Pub. L. 115–278, §2(g)(9)(A)(i)(II), struck out "and" at end.

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–283, §2(e)(3)(A)(i), (ii), inserted "Federal and" before "non-Federal" in section catchline and substituted "the Under Secretary appointed under section 113(a)(1)(H) of this title" for "the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, in cooperation with the Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection" in introductory provisions.

Par. (3). Pub. L. 113–283, §2(e)(3)(A)(iii), (iv), added par. (3).

**2007**—Pub. L. 110–53 substituted "Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, in cooperation with the Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection" for "Under Secretary for Information Analysis and Infrastructure Protection" in introductory provisions.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rule of Construction

Nothing in amendment made by Pub. L. 117–263 to be construed to alter the authorities, responsibilities, functions, or activities of any agency (as such term is defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502) or officer or employee of the United States on or before Dec. 23, 2022, see section 7143(f)(1) of Pub. L. 117–263, set out as a note under section 650 of this title.