### §651. Definitions

In this part:

#### (1) Critical infrastructure information

The term "critical infrastructure information" has the meaning given the term in section 671 of this title.

#### (2) Cybersecurity risk

The term "cybersecurity risk" has the meaning given the term in section 659 of this title.

#### (3) Cybersecurity threat

The term "cybersecurity threat" has the meaning given the term in section 1501(5) of this title.

#### (4) National cybersecurity asset response activities

The term "national cybersecurity asset response activities" means—

(A) furnishing cybersecurity technical assistance to entities affected by cybersecurity risks to protect assets, mitigate vulnerabilities, and reduce impacts of cyber incidents;

(B) identifying other entities that may be at risk of an incident and assessing risk to the same or similar vulnerabilities;

(C) assessing potential cybersecurity risks to a sector or region, including potential cascading effects, and developing courses of action to mitigate such risks;

(D) facilitating information sharing and operational coordination with threat response; and

(E) providing guidance on how best to utilize Federal resources and capabilities in a timely, effective manner to speed recovery from cybersecurity risks.

#### (5) Sector-Specific Agency

The term "Sector-Specific Agency" means a Federal department or agency, designated by law or presidential directive, with responsibility for providing institutional knowledge and specialized expertise of a sector, as well as leading, facilitating, or supporting programs and associated activities of its designated critical infrastructure sector in the all hazards environment in coordination with the Department.

#### (6) Sharing

The term "sharing" has the meaning given the term in section 659 of this title.

(Pub. L. 107–296, title XXII, §2201, as added Pub. L. 115–278, §2(a), Nov. 16, 2018, 132 Stat. 4168.)

#### Construction of Pub. L. 115–278

Pub. L. 115–278, §5, Nov. 16, 2018, 132 Stat. 4186, provided that: "Nothing in this Act \[see section 1 of Pub. L. 115–278, set out as a Short Title of 2018 Amendment note under section 101 of this title\] or an amendment made by this Act may be construed as—

"(1) conferring new authorities to the Secretary of Homeland Security, including programmatic, regulatory, or enforcement authorities, outside of the authorities in existence on the day before the date of enactment of this Act \[Nov. 16, 2018\];

"(2) reducing or limiting the programmatic, regulatory, or enforcement authority vested in any other Federal agency by statute; or

"(3) affecting in any manner the authority, existing on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, of any other Federal agency or component of the Department of Homeland Security."