### §2577. Annual Selected Acquisition Reports on certain hardware relating to defense nuclear nonproliferation

#### (a) Annual Selected Acquisition Reports

#### (1) In general

At the end of each fiscal year, the Administrator shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on each covered hardware project. The reports shall be known as Selected Acquisition Reports for the covered hardware project concerned.

#### (2) Matters included

The information contained in the Selected Acquisition Report for a fiscal year for a covered hardware project shall be the information contained in the Selected Acquisition Report for such fiscal year for a major defense acquisition program under section 4351 of title 10 expressed in terms of the covered hardware project.

#### (b) Covered hardware project defined

In this section, the term "covered hardware project" means a project carried out under the defense nuclear nonproliferation research and development program that—

(1) is focused on the production and deployment of hardware, including with respect to the development and deployment of satellites or satellite payloads; and

(2) exceeds $500,000,000 in total program cost over the course of five years.

(Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLIII, §4311, as added Pub. L. 115–91, div. C, title XXXI, §3131(a), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1894; amended Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, §1702(k)(3)(A), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2160.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 117–81 substituted "section 4351" for "section 2432".