### §24319. Grant process

(a) Procedures for Grant Requests.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish and transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives substantive and procedural requirements, including schedules, for grant requests under this section.

(b) Grant Requests.—Amtrak shall transmit to the Secretary grant requests for Federal funds appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak.

(c) Contents.—A grant request under subsection (b) shall, as applicable—

(1) describe projected operating and capital costs for the upcoming fiscal year for Northeast Corridor activities, including train services and infrastructure, and National Network activities, including State-supported routes and long-distance routes, in comparison to prior fiscal year actual financial performance;

(2) describe the capital projects to be funded, with cost estimates and an estimated timetable for completion of the projects covered by the request;

(3) assess Amtrak's financial condition; and

(4) describe the status of efforts to improve safety and security on the Northeast Corridor main line, including a description of any efforts to implement recommendations of relevant railroad safety advisory committees.

  

(d) Review and Approval.—

(1) Thirty-day approval process.—

(A) In general.—Not later than 30 days after the date that Amtrak submits a grant request under this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall complete a review of the request and provide notice to Amtrak that—

(i) the request is approved; or

(ii) the request is disapproved, including the reason for the disapproval and an explanation of any incomplete or deficient items.

  

(B) Grant agreement.—If a grant request is approved, the Secretary shall enter into a grant agreement with Amtrak.

  

(2) Fifteen-day modification period.—Not later than 15 days after the date of a notice under paragraph (1)(A)(ii), Amtrak shall submit a modified request for the Secretary's review.

(3) Modified requests.—Not later than 15 days after the date that Amtrak submits a modified request under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall either approve the modified request, or, if the Secretary finds that the request is still incomplete or deficient, the Secretary shall identify in writing to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives the remaining deficiencies and recommend a process for resolving the outstanding portions of the request.

  

(e) Payments to Amtrak.—

(1) In general.—A grant agreement entered into under subsection (d) shall specify the operations, services, and other activities to be funded by the grant. The grant agreement shall include provisions, consistent with the requirements of this chapter, to measure Amtrak's performance and ensure accountability in delivering the operations, services, or activities to be funded by the grant.

(2) Schedule.—Except as provided in paragraph (3), in each fiscal year for which amounts are appropriated to the Secretary for the use of Amtrak, and for which the Secretary and Amtrak have entered into a grant agreement under subsection (d), the Secretary shall disburse grant funds to Amtrak on the following schedule:

(A) 50 percent on October 1.

(B) 25 percent on January 1.

(C) 25 percent on April 1.

  

(3) Exceptions.—The Secretary may make a payment to Amtrak of appropriated funds—

(A) more frequently than the schedule under paragraph (2) if Amtrak, for good cause, requests more frequent payment before the end of a payment period; or

(B) with a different frequency or in different percentage allocations in the event of a continuing resolution or in the absence of an appropriations Act for the duration of a fiscal year.

  

(f) Availability of Amounts and Early Appropriations.—Amounts appropriated to the Secretary for the use of Amtrak shall remain available until expended. Amounts for capital acquisitions and improvements may be appropriated for a fiscal year before the fiscal year in which the amounts will be obligated.

(g) Limitations on Use.—Amounts appropriated to the Secretary for the use of Amtrak may not be used to cross-subsidize operating losses or capital costs of commuter rail passenger or freight rail transportation.

(h) Definition of Northeast Corridor.—Notwithstanding section 24102, for purposes of this section, the term "Northeast Corridor" means the Northeast Corridor main line between Boston, Massachusetts, and the District of Columbia, and facilities and services used to operate and maintain that line.

(Added Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title XI, §11202(a), Dec. 4, 2015, 129 Stat. 1628; amended Pub. L. 115–420, §4(b)(1), Jan. 3, 2019, 132 Stat. 5444.)

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of title XI of div. A of Pub. L. 114–94, which was approved Dec. 4, 2015.

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 115–420 added par. (4).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2015, see section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94, set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under section 5313 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Construction of 2019 Amendment

Pub. L. 115–420, §4(b)(2), Jan. 3, 2019, 132 Stat. 5444, provided that: "Nothing in this subsection \[amending this section\] or an amendment made by this subsection shall affect a grant request made under section 24319 of title 49, United States Code, before the date of enactment of this Act \[Jan. 3, 2019\]."