### §4218. Authorization of appropriations

#### (a) Authorization of appropriations

#### (1) In general

There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Commerce to carry out this subchapter $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

#### (2) Use of appropriated funds

Subject to paragraph (3), amounts made available under paragraph (1) shall be provided to the Foundation to match contributions (whether in currency, services, or property) made to the Foundation, or to a recipient of a grant provided by the Foundation, by private persons and State and local government agencies.

#### (3) Prohibition on use for administrative expenses

#### (A) In general

Except as provided in subparagraph (B), no Federal funds made available under paragraph (1) may be used by the Foundation for administrative expenses of the Foundation, including for salaries, travel and transportation expenses, and other overhead expenses.

#### (B) Exception

The Secretary may allow the use of Federal funds made available under paragraph (1) to pay for salaries during the 18-month period beginning on December 18, 2020.

#### (b) Additional authorization

#### (1) In general

In addition to the amounts made available under subsection (a), the Foundation may accept Federal funds from a Federal agency under any other Federal law for use by the Foundation to further the assessment, prevention, reduction, and removal of marine debris in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.

#### (2) Use of funds accepted from Federal agencies

Federal funds provided to the Foundation under paragraph (1) shall be used by the Foundation for matching, in whole or in part, contributions (whether in currency, services, or property) made to the Foundation by private persons and State and local government agencies.

#### (c) Prohibition on use of grant amounts for litigation and lobbying expenses

Amounts provided as a grant by the Foundation shall not be used for—

(1) any expense related to litigation consistent with Federal-wide cost principles; or

(2) any activity the purpose of which is to influence legislation pending before Congress consistent with Federal-wide cost principles.

(Pub. L. 116–224, title I, §118, Dec. 18, 2020, 134 Stat. 1080.)

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1) and (b)(1), was the in the original "this title", meaning title I of Pub. L. 116–224, Dec. 18, 2020, 134 Stat. 1074, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.