### §1411. National Customs Automation Program

#### (a) Establishment

The Secretary shall establish the National Customs Automation Program (hereinafter in this subpart referred to as the "Program") which shall be an automated and electronic system for processing commercial importations and shall include the following existing and planned components:

(1) Existing components:

(A) The electronic entry of merchandise.

(B) The electronic entry summary of required information.

(C) The electronic transmission of invoice information.

(D) The electronic transmission of manifest information.

(E) Electronic payments of duties, fees, and taxes.

(F) The electronic status of liquidation and reliquidation.

(G) The electronic selection of high risk entries for examination (cargo selectivity and entry summary selectivity).

  

(2) Planned components:

(A) The electronic filing and status of protests.

(B) The electronic filing (including remote filing under section 1414 of this title) of entry information with the Customs Service at any location.

(C) The electronic filing of import activity summary statements and reconciliation.

(D) The electronic filing of bonds.

(E) The electronic penalty process.

(F) The electronic filing of drawback claims, records, or entries.

(G) Any other component initiated by the Customs Service to carry out the goals of this subpart.

#### (b) Participation in Program

The Secretary shall by regulation prescribe the eligibility criteria for participation in the Program. The Secretary may, by regulation, require the electronic submission of information described in subsection (a) of this section or any other information required to be submitted to the Customs Service separately pursuant to this subpart.

#### (c) Foreign-trade zones

Not later than January 1, 2000, the Secretary shall provide for the inclusion of commercial importation data from foreign-trade zones under the Program.

#### (d) International Trade Data System

#### (1) Establishment

#### (A) In general

The Secretary of the Treasury (in this subsection, referred to as the "Secretary") shall oversee the establishment of an electronic trade data interchange system to be known as the "International Trade Data System" (ITDS). The ITDS shall be implemented not later than the date that the Automated Commercial Environment (commonly referred to as "ACE") is fully implemented.

#### (B) Purpose

The purpose of the ITDS is to eliminate redundant information requirements, to efficiently regulate the flow of commerce, and to effectively enforce laws and regulations relating to international trade, by establishing a single portal system, operated by the United States Customs and Border Protection, for the collection and distribution of standard electronic import and export data required by all participating Federal agencies.

#### (C) Participation

#### (i) In general

All Federal agencies that require documentation for clearing or licensing the importation and exportation of cargo shall participate in the ITDS.

#### (ii) Waiver

The Director of the Office of Management and Budget may waive, in whole or in part, the requirement for participation for any Federal agency based on the vital national interest of the United States.

#### (D) Consultation

The Secretary shall consult with and assist the United States Customs and Border Protection and other agencies in the transition from paper to electronic format for the submission, issuance, and storage of documents relating to data required to enter cargo into the United States. In so doing, the Secretary shall also consult with private sector stakeholders, including the Commercial Operations Advisory Committee, in developing uniform data submission requirements, procedures, and schedules, for the ITDS.

#### (E) Coordination

The Secretary shall be responsible for coordinating the operation of the ITDS among the participating agencies and the office within the United States Customs and Border Protection that is responsible for maintaining the ITDS.

#### (2) Data elements

#### (A) In general

The Interagency Steering Committee (established under paragraph (3)) shall, in consultation with the agencies participating in the ITDS, define the standard set of data elements to be collected, stored, and shared in the ITDS, consistent with laws applicable to the collection and protection of import and export information. The Interagency Steering Committee shall periodically review the data elements in order to update the standard set of data elements, as necessary.

#### (B) Commitments and obligations

The Interagency Steering Committee shall ensure that the ITDS data requirements are compatible with the commitments and obligations of the United States as a member of the World Customs Organization (WCO) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) for the entry and movement of cargo.

#### (3) Interagency Steering Committee

There is established an Interagency Steering Committee (in this section, referred to as the "Committee"). The members of the Committee shall include the Secretary (who shall serve as the chairperson of the Committee), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the head of each agency participating in the ITDS. The Committee shall assist the Secretary in overseeing the implementation of, and participation in, the ITDS.

#### (4) Report

The President shall submit a report before the end of each fiscal year to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives. Each report shall include information on—

(A) the status of the ITDS implementation;

(B) the extent of participation in the ITDS by Federal agencies;

(C) the remaining barriers to any agency's participation;

(D) the consistency of the ITDS with applicable standards established by the World Customs Organization and the World Trade Organization;

(E) recommendations for technological and other improvements to the ITDS; and

(F) the status of the development, implementation, and management of the Automated Commercial Environment within the United States Customs and Border Protection.

#### (5) Sense of Congress

It is the sense of Congress that agency participation in the ITDS is an important priority of the Federal Government and that the Secretary shall coordinate the operation of the ITDS closely among the participating agencies and the office within the United States Customs and Border Protection that is responsible for maintaining the ITDS.

#### (6) Construction

Nothing in this section shall be construed as amending or modifying subsection (g) of section 301 of title 13.

#### (7) Definition

The term "Commercial Operations Advisory Committee" means the Advisory Committee established pursuant to section 9503(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 (19 U.S.C. 2071 note) or any successor committee.

(June 17, 1930, ch. 497, title IV, §411, as added Pub. L. 103–182, title VI, §631(2), Dec. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 2188; amended Pub. L. 106–36, title II, §2405, June 25, 1999, 113 Stat. 169; Pub. L. 107–210, div. A, title III, §338, Aug. 6, 2002, 116 Stat. 980; Pub. L. 109–347, title IV, §405, Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1929.)

#### References in Text

Section 9503(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987, referred to in subsec. (d)(7), is section 9503(c) of Pub. L. 100–203, which is set out as a note under section 2071 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2006**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 109–347 added subsec. (d).

**2002**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 107–210 inserted second sentence and struck out former second sentence which read as follows: "Participation in the Program is voluntary."

**1999**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 106–36 added subsec. (c).

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 107–210 applicable to petitions for certification filed under part 2 or 3 of subchapter II of chapter 12 of this title on or after the date that is 90 days after Aug. 6, 2002, except as otherwise provided, see section 151 of Pub. L. 107–210, set out as a note preceding section 2271 of this title.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.