### §41303. Uniform Federal Crime Reporting Act of 1988

#### (a) Short title

This section may be cited as the "Uniform Federal Crime Reporting Act of 1988".

#### (b) Definitions

For purposes of this section, the term "Uniform Crime Reports" means the reports authorized under section 534 of title 28 and administered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation which compiles nationwide criminal statistics for use in law enforcement administration, operation, and management and to assess the nature and type of crime in the United States.

#### (c) Establishment of system

#### (1) In general

The Attorney General shall acquire, collect, classify, and preserve national data on Federal criminal offenses as part of the Uniform Crime Reports.

#### (2) Reporting by federal agencies

All departments and agencies within the Federal government (including the Department of Defense) which routinely investigate complaints of criminal activity, shall report details about crime within their respective jurisdiction to the Attorney General in a uniform manner and on a form prescribed by the Attorney General. The reporting required by this subsection shall be limited to the reporting of those crimes comprising the Uniform Crime Reports.

#### (3) Distribution of data

The Attorney General shall distribute data received pursuant to paragraph (2), in the form of annual Uniform Crime Reports for the United States, to the President, Members of the Congress, State governments, and officials of localities and penal and other institutions participating in the Uniform Crime Reports program.

#### (d) Role of Federal Bureau of Investigation

The Attorney General may designate the Federal Bureau of Investigation as the lead agency for purposes of performing the functions authorized by this section and may appoint or establish such advisory and oversight boards as may be necessary to assist the Bureau in ensuring uniformity, quality, and maximum use of the data collected.

#### (e) Inclusion of offenses involving illegal drugs

The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation is authorized to classify offenses involving illegal drugs and drug trafficking as a part I crime in the Uniform Crime Reports.

#### (f) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated $350,000 for fiscal year 1989 and such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section after fiscal year 1989.

#### (g) Effective date

The provisions of this section shall be effective on January 1, 1989.

(Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, §7332, Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4468.)

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under section 534 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.