### §41309. Reporting on human trafficking

#### (a) Trafficking offense classification

The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall—

(1) classify the offense of human trafficking as a Part I crime in the Uniform Crime Reports;

(2) to the extent feasible, establish subcategories for State sex crimes that involve—

(A) a person who is younger than 18 years of age;

(B) the use of force, fraud or coercion; or

(C) neither of the elements described in subparagraphs (A) and (B); and

  

(3) classify the offense of human trafficking as a Group A offense for purpose of the National Incident-Based Reporting System.

#### (b) Additional information

The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall revise the Uniform Crime Reporting System [1](#41309_1_target) and the National Incident-Based Reporting System to distinguish between reports of—

(1) incidents of assisting or promoting prostitution, which shall include crimes committed by persons who—

(A) do not directly engage in commercial sex acts; and

(B) direct, manage, or profit from such acts, such as State pimping and pandering crimes;

  

(2) incidents of purchasing prostitution, which shall include crimes committed by persons who purchase or attempt to purchase or trade anything of value for commercial sex acts; and

(3) incidents of prostitution, which shall include crimes committed by persons providing or attempting to provide commercial sex acts.

(Pub. L. 110–457, title II, §237(a), (b), Dec. 23, 2008, 122 Stat. 5083.)

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under section 534 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is comprised of subsecs. (a) and (b) of section 237 of Pub. L. 110–457. Subsec. (c) of section 237 is not classified to the Code.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "Program".](#41309_1)