### §2111. Recall

#### (a) Authority to recall

The Director may, with the consent of a retired participant, recall that participant to service in the Agency whenever the Director determines that such recall is in the public interest.

#### (b) Pay of retired participant while serving

A retired participant recalled to duty in the Agency under subsection (a) or reinstated or reappointed in accordance with section 2051(b) [1](#2111_1_target) of this title shall, while so serving, be entitled, in lieu of the retired participant's annuity, to the full basic pay of the grade in which the retired participant is serving. During such service, the retired participant shall make contributions to the fund in accordance with section 2021 of this title.

#### (c) Recomputation of annuity

When the retired participant reverts to retired status, the annuity of the retired participant shall be redetermined in accordance with section 2031 of this title.

(Pub. L. 88–643, title II, §271, as added Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, §802, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3238.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 271 of Pub. L. 88–643, title II, Oct. 13, 1964, 78 Stat. 1052, related to recalled participants and was set out as a note under section 403 of this title prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 88–643 by section 802 of Pub. L. 102–496.

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496, set out as a note under section 2001 of this title.

#### Waiver of Dual Compensation Provisions

For waiver of application of the dual compensation reduction provisions of this section for temporary employees during an emergency, see Ex. Ord. No. 13236, Nov. 27, 2001, 66 F.R. 59671, set out as a note under section 2141 of this title.

[1 So in original. Probably should be section "2051(c)".](#2111_1)