### §1164.[1](#1164_1_target) Specialized teams to evaluate claims involving military sexual trauma

(a) In General.—The Secretary shall establish specialized teams to process claims for compensation for a covered mental health condition based on military sexual trauma experienced by a veteran during active military, naval, or air service.

(b) Training.—The Secretary shall ensure that members of teams established under subsection (a) are trained to identify markers indicating military sexual trauma.

(c) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "covered mental health condition" means post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, depression, or other mental health diagnosis described in the current version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association that the Secretary determines to be related to military sexual trauma.

(2) The term "military sexual trauma" means, with respect to a veteran, a physical assault of a sexual nature, battery of a sexual nature, or sexual harassment during active military, naval, or air service.

(Added Pub. L. 116–315, title V, §5501(a)(1), Jan. 5, 2021, 134 Stat. 5048.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Pub. L. 116–315, §5501(a)(1), which added this section at the end of subchapter VI of chapter 11 of "such title" without specifying the title to be amended, was added at the end of subchapter VI of chapter 11 of this title to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

[1 Another section 1164 is set out preceding this section.](#1164_1)