### §1523. Definitions

In this subchapter:

#### (1) Administrator

The term "Administrator" means the Administrator appointed by the Director under section 1531(c) of this title.

#### (2) Advisory Commission

The term "Advisory Commission" means the Advisory Commission established under section 1541 [1](#1523_1_target) of this title.

#### (3) Community

The term "community" shall have the meaning provided that term by the Administrator, in consultation with the Advisory Commission.

#### (4) Director

The term "Director" means the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.

#### (5) Eligible coalition

The term "eligible coalition" means a coalition that meets the applicable criteria under section 1532(a) of this title.

#### (6) Grant recipient

The term "grant recipient" means the recipient of a grant award under section 1532 of this title.

#### (7) Nonprofit organization

The term "nonprofit organization" means an organization described under section 501(c)(3) of title 26 that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of title 26.

#### (8) Program

The term "Program" means the program established under section 1531(a) of this title.

#### (9) Substance use and misuse

The term "substance use and misuse" means—

(A) the illegal use or misuse of drugs, including substances for which a listing is effect under any of schedules I through V under section 812 of this title;

(B) the misuse of inhalants or over-the-counter drugs; or

(C) the use of alcohol, tobacco, or other related product as such use is prohibited by State or local law.

#### (10) Youth

The term "youth" shall have the meaning provided that term by the Administrator, in consultation with the Advisory Commission.

(Pub. L. 100–690, title I, §1023, as added Pub. L. 105–20, §2(a)(2), June 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 225; amended Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, §8203(b)(2), Oct. 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 4111.)

#### References in Text

Section 1541 of this title, referred to in par. (2), was repealed by Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, §8203(b)(5), Oct. 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 4112.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Par. (9). Pub. L. 115–271, which directed adding par. (9) and striking out former par. (9), which defined "substance abuse", in section 1023 of "chapter 2 of subtitle A of title I of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988", was executed to this section, which is section 1023 of chapter 2 of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. The National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988 is itself subtitle A of title I of Pub. L. 100–690.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#1523_1)