### §1522. Purposes

The purposes of this subchapter are—

(1) to reduce substance use and misuse among youth in communities throughout the United States, and over time, to reduce substance use and misuse among adults;

(2) to strengthen collaboration among communities, the Federal Government, and State, local, and tribal governments;

(3) to enhance intergovernmental cooperation and coordination on the issue of substance use and misuse among youth;

(4) to serve as a catalyst for increased citizen participation and greater collaboration among all sectors and organizations of a community that first demonstrates a long-term commitment to reducing substance use and misuse among youth;

(5) to rechannel resources from the fiscal year 1998 Federal drug control budget to provide technical assistance, guidance, and financial support to communities that demonstrate a long-term commitment in reducing substance use and misuse among youth;

(6) to disseminate to communities timely information regarding the state-of-the-art practices and initiatives that have proven to be effective in reducing substance use and misuse among youth;

(7) to enhance, not supplant, local community initiatives for reducing substance use and misuse among youth; and

(8) to encourage the creation of and support for community anti-drug coalitions throughout the United States.

(Pub. L. 100–690, title I, §1022, as added Pub. L. 105–20, §2(a)(2), June 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 225; amended Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, §8203(b)(1), Oct. 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 4111.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–271, which directed substitution of "substance use and misuse" for "substance abuse" wherever appearing in section 1022 of "chapter 2 of subtitle A of title I of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988", was executed to this section, which is section 1022 of chapter 2 of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. The National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988 is itself subtitle A of title I of Pub. L. 100–690.