### §521. Publication and distribution of opinions

The Attorney General, from time to time—

(1) shall cause to be edited, and printed in the Government Printing Office, such of his opinions as he considers valuable for preservation in volumes; and

(2) may prescribe the manner for the distribution of the volumes.

  

Each volume shall contain headnotes, an index, and such footnotes as the Attorney General may approve.

(Added Pub. L. 89–554, §4(c), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 614.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code*                                                                              | *Revised Statutes and  Statutes at Large*                                             |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|              | 5 U.S.C. 305 (1st sentence, as applicable to the Attorney General; 2d and 3d sentences). | R.S. §383 (1st sentence, as applicable to the Attorney General; 2d and 3d sentences). |

Section 188 of the Revised Statutes was part of title IV of the Revised Statutes. The Act of July 26, 1947, ch. 343, §201(d), as added Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, §4, 63 Stat. 579 (former 5 U.S.C. 171–1), which provides “Except to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this Act \[National Security Act of 1947\], the provisions of title IV of the Revised Statutes as now or hereafter amended shall be applicable to the Department of Defense” is omitted from this title but is not repealed.

The words “his opinions” are substituted for “the opinions of the law officers herein authorized to be given” as the opinions of the Attorney General are his and only his and the reference to other “law officers” is misleading. All functions of all other officers of the Department of Justice were transferred to the Attorney General by 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 2, §1, eff. May 14, 1950, 64 Stat. 1261. The word “considers” is substituted for “may deem”.

In the last sentence, the words “proper” and “complete and full” are omitted as unnecessary.