### §5801. Findings and purpose

#### (a) Findings

Congress finds that—

(1) LIBOR is used as a benchmark rate in more than $200,000,000,000,000 worth of contracts worldwide;

(2) a significant number of existing contracts that reference LIBOR do not provide for the use of a clearly defined or practicable replacement benchmark rate when LIBOR is discontinued; and

(3) the cessation or nonrepresentativeness of LIBOR could result in disruptive litigation related to existing contracts that do not provide for the use of a clearly defined or practicable replacement benchmark rate.

#### (b) Purpose

It is the purpose of this chapter—

(1) to establish a clear and uniform process, on a nationwide basis, for replacing LIBOR in existing contracts the terms of which do not provide for the use of a clearly defined or practicable replacement benchmark rate, without affecting the ability of parties to use any appropriate benchmark rate in new contracts;

(2) to preclude litigation related to existing contracts the terms of which do not provide for the use of a clearly defined or practicable replacement benchmark rate;

(3) to allow existing contracts that reference LIBOR but provide for the use of a clearly defined and practicable replacement rate, to operate according to their terms; and

(4) to address LIBOR references in Federal law.

(Pub. L. 117–103, div. U, §102, Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 825.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original "this division", meaning div. U of Pub. L. 117–103, Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 825, known as the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of div. U to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 117–103, div. U, §101, Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 825, provided that: "This division \[enacting this chapter and amending section 77ppp of Title 15, Commerce and Trade, and section 1087–1 of Title 20, Education\] may be cited as the 'Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act'."