### §1831. Definitions

In this chapter:

(1) The term "child" means the following:

(A) For purposes of subchapters I and II of this chapter, an individual, regardless of age or marital status, who—

(i) is the natural child of a Vietnam veteran; and

(ii) was conceived after the date on which that veteran first entered the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era.

  

(B) For purposes of subchapter III of this chapter, an individual, regardless of age or marital status, who—

(i) is the natural child of a veteran of covered service in Korea (as determined for purposes of section 1821 of this title); and

(ii) was conceived after the date on which that veteran first entered service described in subsection (c) of that section.

  

(2) The term "Vietnam veteran" means an individual who performed active military, naval, or air service in the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era, without regard to the characterization of that individual's service.

(3) The term "Vietnam era" with respect to—

(A) subchapter I of this chapter, means the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975; and

(B) subchapter II of this chapter, means the period beginning on February 28, 1961, and ending on May 7, 1975.

(Added Pub. L. 106–419, title IV, §401(b), Nov. 1, 2000, 114 Stat. 1859, §1821; renumbered §1831 and amended Pub. L. 108–183, title I, §102(a)(1), (b), Dec. 16, 2003, 117 Stat. 2653, 2654; Pub. L. 116–23, §4(b), June 25, 2019, 133 Stat. 971.)

#### Amendment of Paragraph (1)

Pub. L. 116–23, §4(b), (f), June 25, 2019, 133 Stat. 971, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2020, paragraph (1) of this section is amended as follows:

(1) in subparagraph (B)—

(A) by striking "subchapter III of this chapter" and inserting "section 1821 of this title"; and

(B) in clause (i), by striking "section 1821 of this title" and inserting "that section"; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

*(C) For purposes of section 1822 of this title, an individual, regardless of age or marital status, who—*

*(i) is the natural child of a veteran of covered service in Thailand (as determined for purposes of that section); and*

*(ii) was conceived after the date on which that veteran first entered service described in subsection (c) of that section.*

See 2019 Amendment notes below.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1831 was renumbered section 3731 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2019**—Par. (1)(B). Pub. L. 116–23, §4(b)(1)(A), substituted "section 1821 of this title" for "subchapter III of this chapter" in introductory provisions.

Par. (1)(B)(i). Pub. L. 116–23, §4(b)(1)(B), substituted "that section" for "section 1821 of this title".

Par. (1)(C). Pub. L. 116–23, §4(b)(2), added subpar. (C).

**2003**—Pub. L. 108–183, §102(a)(1), renumbered section 1821 of this title as this section.

Par. (1). Pub. L. 108–183, §102(b), added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: "The term 'child' means an individual, regardless of age or marital status, who—

"(A) is the natural child of a Vietnam veteran; and

"(B) was conceived after the date on which that veteran first entered the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era."

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–23 effective Jan. 1, 2020, see section 4(f) of Pub. L. 116–23, set out as an Effective Date note under section 1822 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Subchapter effective on the first day of the first month beginning more than one year after Nov. 1, 2000, see section 401(g) of Pub. L. 106–419, set out as a note under section 1811 of this title.