### §4214. Advisory group

#### (a) In general

To assist in carrying out this chapter, the Secretary may convene an advisory group consisting of individuals representing public and private organizations actively involved in the conservation of African elephants.

#### (b) Public participation

#### (1) Meetings

The Advisory Group [1](#4214_1_target) shall—

(A) ensure that each meeting of the advisory group is open to the public; and

(B) provide, at each meeting, an opportunity for interested persons to present oral or written statements concerning items on the agenda.

#### (2) Notice

The Secretary shall provide to the public timely notice of each meeting of the advisory group.

#### (3) Minutes

Minutes of each meeting of the advisory group shall be kept by the Secretary and shall be made available to the public.

#### (c) Exemption from chapter 10 of title 5

Chapter 10 of title 5 shall not apply to the advisory group.

(Pub. L. 100–478, title II, §2104, as added Pub. L. 107–111, §4, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 2095; amended Pub. L. 107–141, §5(b)(2)(A), Feb. 12, 2002, 116 Stat. 14; Pub. L. 117–286, §4(a)(120), Dec. 27, 2022, 136 Stat. 4318.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2022**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 117–286 substituted "chapter 10 of title 5" for "Federal Advisory Committee Act" in heading and "Chapter 10 of title 5" for "The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.)" in text.

**2002**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 107–141 made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to this chapter.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Pub. L. 107–141, §5(b)(2), Feb. 12, 2002, 116 Stat. 14, provided that the amendment by section 5(b)(2) of Pub. L. 107–141 is effective on the day after Jan. 8, 2002.

[1 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized.](#4214_1)