### §7614c. Budget submission and funding

#### (a) Definition of competitive programs

In this section, the term “competitive programs” includes only competitive programs for which annual appropriations are requested in the annual budget submission of the President.

#### (b) Budget request

The President shall submit to Congress, together with the annual budget submission of the President, a single budget line item reflecting the total amount requested by the President for funding for research, education, and extension activities of the Research, Education, and Economics mission area of the Department for that fiscal year and for the preceding 5 fiscal years.

#### (c) Capacity and infrastructure program request

Of the funds requested for capacity and infrastructure programs in excess of the capacity and infrastructure program critical base funding level, budgetary emphasis should be placed on enhancing funding for—

(1) 1890 Institutions;

(2) 1994 Institutions;

(3) NLGCA Institutions;

(4) Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; and

(5) small 1862 Institutions.

#### (d) Competitive program request

Of the funds requested for competitive programs in excess of the competitive program critical base funding level, budgetary emphasis should be placed on—

(1) enhancing funding for emerging problems; and

(2) finding solutions for those problems.

(Pub. L. 110–234, title VII, §7506, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1259; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title VII, §7506, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2020.)

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

Section was enacted as part of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, and not as part of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998, which in part comprises this chapter.

#### Effective Date

Enactment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 8701 of this title.