### §342. Administration, protection, and promotion

The administration, protection, and promotion of Acadia National Park shall be exercised under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior by the National Park Service, subject to the provisions of the Act of August twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and sixteen, entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes," [1](#342_1_target) and Acts additional thereto or amendatory thereof.

(Feb. 26, 1919, ch. 45, §2, 40 Stat. 1179; Jan. 19, 1929, ch. 77, §2, 45 Stat. 1083.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act of August twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and sixteen, entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes", referred to in text, is act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408, 39 Stat. 535, known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and provisions set out as a note under section 100101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as section 1865(a) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54 by Pub. L. 113–287, §§3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3094, 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

"Lafayette National Park" changed to "Acadia National Park" by act Jan. 19, 1929.

#### Jurisdiction of Certain Lands

Act July 30, 1947, ch. 350, 61 Stat. 519, provided:

"That control and jurisdiction over the following-described lands now comprising a portion of the Acadia National Park, in the State of Maine, are hereby transferred from the Department of the Interior to the Department of the Navy: *Provided*, That the Secretary of the Interior shall retain the right to approve the design of the buildings and structures to be placed thereon.

"All that certain tract or parcel of land on Big Moose Island, Winter Harbor, Maine, which is bounded southerly and easterly by a chain link security fence, and northerly and westerly by the waters of Pond Island Cove and Frenchman Bay, and which is more particularly described as beginning at a point on the shore at the high-water mark of Frenchman Bay on the southwesterly side of Big Moose Island, so called, thence following the chain link security fence as now erected by the three following courses and distances: North no degrees five minutes west one hundred and fifty-three feet; thence north thirty degrees twenty-four minutes east one hundred and fifty-seven and seven-tenths feet; thence south eighty-nine degrees nine minutes east one thousand four hundred and fifty-five and three-tenths feet to a point and angle in the said security fence which bears north thirty-four degrees fifty-four minutes west and is fifty feet distant at right angles from a point in the center line of the National Park Service road known as the Big Moose Island Road; thence turning to the left and following the said security fence in a general northerly direction but everywhere parallel with and fifty feet distant from the center line of the said Big Moose Island Road three thousand five hundred feet more or less to the high-water mark on the shore of Pond Island Cove; thence in a generally westerly and southerly direction but everywhere following the high-water mark of Pond Island Cove and Frenchman Bay seven thousand four hundred and seventy feet more or less to the place of beginning; except that portion thereof, containing twenty-five and ninety-six one-hundredths acres, which was transferred to the jurisdiction of the Department of the Navy pursuant to the Act of August 24, 1935 (ch. 644, 49 Stat. 795); the lands herein described containing one hundred and fifty-one and eighty-six one-hundredths acres, after excluding the excepted portion.

"Sec. 2. The Secretary of the Navy is authorized and directed to retransfer jurisdiction over the property described in section 1 of this Act to the Secretary of the Interior in the event such property hereafter becomes surplus to the needs of the Department of the Navy, in which event it again shall become a part of Acadia National Park."

  

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#342_1)