### §2200. Programs; purpose

(a) In General.—To encourage the recruitment and retention of Department of Defense personnel who have the computer and network security skills necessary to meet the cyber requirements of the Department of Defense, the Secretary of Defense may carry out programs in accordance with this chapter to provide financial support for education in disciplines relevant to those requirements at institutions of higher education.

(b) Types of Programs.—The programs authorized under this chapter are as follows:

(1) Scholarships for pursuit of programs of education in cyber disciplines at institutions of higher education.

(2) Grants to institutions of higher education.

  

(c) Name of Program.—The programs authorized under this chapter shall be known as the "Cyber Scholarship Program".

(Added Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title IX, §922(a)(1)\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–233; amended Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XVI, §1649(a), (d)(1)(B), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1752.)

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–91, §1649(d)(1)(B)(i), substituted "the cyber requirements of the Department of Defense" for "Department of Defense information assurance requirements".

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 115–91, §1649(d)(1)(B)(ii), substituted "cyber disciplines" for "information assurance".

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 115–91, §1649(a), added subsec. (c).

#### Change of Name

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XVI, §1649(e)(1), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1753, provided that: "The Information Security Scholarship program under chapter 112 of title 10, United States Code, is redesignated as the 'Cyber Scholarship program'. Any reference in a law (other than this section), map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Information Security Scholarship program shall be deemed to be a reference to the Cyber Scholarship Program."

#### Program To Establish Cyber Institutes at Institutions of Higher Learning

Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVI, §1640, Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2130, provided that:

"(a) Program Authorized.—The Secretary of Defense may carry out a program to establish a Cyber Institute at institutions of higher learning selected under subsection (b) for purposes of accelerating and focusing the development of foundational expertise in critical cyber operational skills for future military and civilian leaders of the Armed Forces and the Department of Defense, including such leaders of the reserve components.

"(b) Selected Institutions of Higher Learning.—

"(1) In general.—The Secretary of Defense shall select institutions of higher learning for purposes of the program established under subsection (a) from among institutions of higher learning that have a Reserve Officers' Training Corps program.

"(2) Consideration of senior military colleges.—In selecting institutions of higher learning under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider the senior military colleges with Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs.

"(c) Elements.—Each institute established under the program authorized by subsection (a) shall include the following:

"(1) Programs to provide future military and civilian leaders of the Armed Forces or the Department of Defense who possess cyber operational expertise from beginning through advanced skill levels. Such programs shall include instruction and practical experiences that lead to recognized certifications and degrees in the cyber field.

"(2) Programs of targeted strategic foreign language proficiency training for such future leaders that—

"(A) are designed to significantly enhance critical cyber operational capabilities; and

"(B) are tailored to current and anticipated readiness requirements.

"(3) Programs related to mathematical foundations of cryptography and courses in cryptographic theory and practice designed to complement and reinforce cyber education along with the strategic language programs critical to cyber operations.

"(4) Programs related to data science and courses in data science theory and practice designed to complement and reinforce cyber education along with the strategic language programs critical to cyber operations.

"(5) Programs designed to develop early interest and cyber talent through summer programs, dual enrollment opportunities for cyber, strategic language, data science, and cryptography related courses.

"(6) Training and education programs to expand the pool of qualified cyber instructors necessary to support cyber education in regional school systems.

"(d) Partnerships With Department of Defense and the Armed Forces.—Any institute established under the program authorized by subsection (a) may enter into a partnership with one or more components of the Armed Forces, active or reserve, or any agency of the Department of Defense to facilitate the development of critical cyber skills for students who may pursue a military career.

"(e) Partnerships.—Any institute established under the program authorized by subsection (a) may enter into a partnership with one or more local educational agencies to facilitate the development of critical cyber skills.

"(f) Senior Military Colleges Defined.—The term 'senior military colleges' has the meaning given such term in section 2111a(f) of title 10, United States Code."

#### Report

Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title IX, §922(c)\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–236, directed the Secretary of Defense to submit to committees of Congress a plan for implementing the programs under this chapter not later than Apr. 1, 2001.