### §3112. Annual reports on the domestic activities of the intelligence community

#### (a) Reports

Not later than January 31 of each year, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report—

(1) identifying all domestic activities undertaken by each element of the intelligence community during the prior fiscal year; and

(2) for each activity identified under paragraph (1), a statement of the legal authority authorizing such activity to be undertaken.

#### (b) Form

Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title V, §513, as added Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title V, §505(b), Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 989.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### First Report; Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined

Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title V, §505(c), (d), Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 989, provided that:

"(c) First Report.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Mar. 15, 2022\], the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the first report required under section 513 of the National Security Act of 1947 \[50 U.S.C. 3112\], as added by subsection (a).

"(d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.—In this section, the term 'appropriate congressional committees' means—

"(1) the congressional intelligence committees; and

"(2) the Subcommittees on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies and the Subcommittees on Homeland Security of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate."

\[For definition of "congressional intelligence committees" as used in section 505(d) of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103, set out above, see section 2 of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103, set out as a note under section 3003 of this title.\]