### §7144b. Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence

#### (a) Definitions

In this section, the terms "intelligence community" and "National Intelligence Program" have the meanings given such terms in section 3003 of title 50.

#### (b) In general

There is in the Department an Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence. Such office shall be under the National Intelligence Program.

#### (c) Director

(1) The head of the Office shall be the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, who shall be an employee in the Senior Executive Service, the Senior Intelligence Service, the Senior National Intelligence Service, or any other Service that the Secretary, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence, considers appropriate. The Director of the Office shall report directly to the Secretary.

(2) The Secretary shall select an individual to serve as the Director from among individuals who have substantial expertise in matters relating to the intelligence community, including foreign intelligence and counterintelligence.

#### (d) Duties

(1) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary, the Director shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Secretary may prescribe.

(2) The Director shall be responsible for establishing policy for intelligence and counterintelligence programs and activities at the Department.

(Pub. L. 95–91, title II, §215, as added Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, §3204(a), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 955; amended Pub. L. 109–364, div. C, title XXXI, §3117(f), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2508; Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXIV, §6421(a), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 2199.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2019**—Pub. L. 116–92 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to establishment, director, duties, and annual reports of the Office of Counterintelligence.

**2006**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 109–364 substituted "who shall be an employee in the Senior Executive Service, the Senior Intelligence Service, the Senior National Intelligence Service, or any other Service that the Secretary, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence, considers appropriate" for "which shall be a position in the Senior Executive Service".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 5, 1999, see section 3299 of Pub. L. 106–65, set out as a note under section 2401 of Title 50, War and National Defense.