### §7626. Integrated research, education, and extension competitive grants program

#### (a) Purpose

It is the purpose of this section to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to establish an integrated research, education, and extension competitive grant program to provide funding for integrated, multifunctional agricultural research, extension, and education activities.

#### (b) Competitive grants authorized

Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry out this section, the Secretary may award grants to colleges and universities (as defined in section 3103 of this title), 1994 Institutions, and Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities on a competitive basis for integrated agricultural research, education, and extension projects in accordance with this section.

#### (c) Criteria for grants

Grants under this section shall be awarded to address priorities in United States agriculture, determined by the Secretary in consultation with the Advisory Board, that involve integrated research, extension, and education activities.

#### (d) Matching of funds

#### (1) General requirement

If a grant under this section provides a particular benefit to a specific agricultural commodity, the Secretary shall require the recipient of the grant to provide funds or in-kind support to match the amount of funds provided by the Secretary in the grant.

#### (2) Waiver

The Secretary may waive the matching funds requirement specified in paragraph (1) with respect to a grant if the Secretary determines that—

(A) the results of the project, while of particular benefit to a specific agricultural commodity, are likely to be applicable to agricultural commodities generally; or

(B) the project involves a minor commodity, the project deals with scientifically important research, and the grant recipient is unable to satisfy the matching funds requirement.

#### (e) Term of grant

A grant under this section shall have a term of not more than 5 years.

#### (f) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 1999 through 2012.

(Pub. L. 105–185, title IV, §406, June 23, 1998, 112 Stat. 573; Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, §§7125, 7206, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 434, 439; Pub. L. 110–234, title VII, §§7129(c)(4), 7306, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1227, 1242; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title VII, §§7129(c)(4), 7306, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1988, 2004.)

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by Pub. L. 110–234 were repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### Amendments

**2008**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 110–246, §7129(c)(4), substituted “, 1994 Institutions, and Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities” for “and 1994 Institutions”.

Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 110–246, §7306, substituted “2012” for “2007”.

**2002**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 107–171, §7206, inserted “and 1994 Institutions” before “on a competitive basis”.

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 107–171, §7125(1), (2), added subsec. (e). Former subsec. (e) redesignated (f).

Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 107–171, §7125(1), (3), redesignated subsec. (e) as (f) and substituted “2007” for “2002”.

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8701 of this title.