### §2711. Deserters; payment of expenses incident to apprehension and delivery; penalties

(a) The Coast Guard may, pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary, make such expenditures as are deemed necessary for the apprehension and delivery of deserters, stragglers, and prisoners.

(b) No individual who is convicted by court martial for desertion from the Coast Guard in time of war, and as the result of such conviction is dismissed or dishonorably discharged from the Coast Guard shall afterwards be enlisted, appointed, or commissioned in any military or naval service under the United States, unless the disability resulting from desertion, as established by this section is removed by a board of commissioned officers of the Coast Guard convened for consideration of the case, and the action of the Board is approved by the Secretary; or unless he is restored to duty in time of war.

(Added May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §16(a), 64 Stat. 148, §508; amended July 10, 1952, ch. 631, §2, 66 Stat. 540; renumbered §2711, Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §116(b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4226; Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV \[LXXXV\], §8505(a)(24), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4749.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–283 substituted "individual" for "person".

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282 renumbered section 508 of this title as this section.

**1952**—Subsec. (a). Act July 10, 1952, authorized reimbursement of necessary expenses to persons other than civil officers, and added stragglers and prisoners to class of offenders.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective May 31, 1951, see act May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §5, 64 Stat. 145.