### §13503. Supporting research and technical analysis

#### (a) Basic energy sciences

#### (1) Program direction

The Secretary shall continue to support a vigorous program of basic energy sciences to provide basic research support for the development of energy technologies. Such program shall focus on the efficient production and use of energy, and the expansion of our knowledge of materials, chemistry, geology, and other related areas of advancing technology development.

#### (2) User facilities

(A) As part of the program referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall carry out planning, construction, and operation of user facilities to provide special scientific and research capabilities, including technical expertise and support as appropriate, to serve the research needs of our Nation's universities, industry, private laboratories, Federal laboratories, and others. Research institutions or individuals from other nations shall be accommodated at such user facilities in cases where reciprocal accommodations are provided to United States research institutions and individuals or where the Secretary considers such accommodation to be in the national interest.

(B) The construction of the Advanced Photon Source at the Argonne National Laboratory is hereby authorized.

(C) The Secretary shall not change the user fee practice in effect as of October 1, 1991, with respect to user facilities unless the Secretary notifies Congress 90 days before the effective date of any change.

(D) The Secretary shall expedite the design for construction of the Advanced Neutron Source at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, in order to provide critical research capabilities in support of our national research initiatives for advanced materials and biotechnology, as well as a broad range of research. Such action shall be consistent with the Basic Energy Sciences Advisory Committee's Technical Evaluation of accelerator and reactor neutron source technologies. Within 90 days after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a plan for such design, including a schedule for construction.

#### (3) Cost sharing

The Secretary shall not require cost sharing for research and development pursuant to this subsection, except—

(A) as otherwise provided for in cooperative research and development agreements or other agreements entered into under existing law;

(B) for fees for user facilities, as determined by the Secretary; or

(C) in the case of specific projects, where the Secretary determines that the benefits of such research and development accrue to a specific industry or group of industries, in which case cost sharing under section 13542 of this title shall apply.

#### (b) University and science education

(1) The Secretary shall support programs for improvements and upgrading of university research reactors and associated instrumentation and equipment. Within 1 year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report on the condition and status of university research reactors, which includes a 5-year plan for upgrading and improving such facilities, instrumentation capabilities, and related equipment.

(2) The Secretary shall develop a method to evaluate the effectiveness of science and mathematics education programs provided by the Department of Energy and its laboratories, including specific evaluation criteria.

(3) Established program to stimulate competitive research.—

(A) Definitions.—In this paragraph:

(i) Eligible jurisdiction.—The term "eligible jurisdiction" means a State that is determined to be eligible for a grant under this paragraph in accordance with subparagraph (D).

(ii) EPSCoR.—The term "EPSCoR" means the Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research operated under subparagraph (B).

(iii) National laboratory.—The term "National Laboratory" has the meaning given the term in section 15801 of this title.

(iv) State.—The term 'State' means—

(I) a State;

(II) the District of Columbia;

(III) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;

(IV) Guam; and

(V) the United States Virgin Islands.

  

(B) Program operation.—The Secretary shall operate an Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research.

(C) Objectives.—The objectives of EPSCoR shall be—

(i) to increase the number of researchers in eligible jurisdictions, especially at institutions of higher education, capable of performing nationally competitive science and engineering research in support of the mission of the Department of Energy in the areas of applied energy research, environmental management, and basic science;

(ii) to improve science and engineering research and education programs at institutions of higher education in eligible jurisdictions and enhance the capabilities of eligible jurisdictions to develop, plan, and execute research that is competitive, including through investing in research equipment and instrumentation; and

(iii) to increase the probability of long-term growth of competitive funding to eligible jurisdictions.

  

(D) Eligible jurisdictions.—

(i) In general.—The Secretary may establish criteria for determining whether a State is eligible for a grant under this paragraph.

(ii) Requirement.—Except as provided in clause (iii), in establishing criteria under clause (i), the Secretary shall ensure that a State is eligible for a grant under this paragraph if the State, as determined by the Secretary, is a State that—

(I) historically has received relatively little Federal research and development funding; and

(II) has demonstrated a commitment—

(aa) to develop the research bases in the State; and

(bb) to improve science and engineering research and education programs at institutions of higher education in the State.

  

(iii) Eligibility under nsf epscor.—At the election of the Secretary, or if the Secretary declines to establish criteria under clause (i), the Secretary may continue to use the eligibility criteria in use on January 1, 2021, or any successor criteria.

  

(E) Grants in areas of applied energy research, environmental management, and basic science.—

(i) In general.—EPSCoR shall make grants to eligible jurisdictions to carry out and support applied energy research and research in all areas of environmental management and basic science sponsored by the Department of Energy, including—

(I) energy efficiency, fossil energy, renewable energy, and other applied energy research;

(II) electricity delivery research;

(III) cybersecurity, energy security, and emergency response;

(IV) environmental management; and

(V) basic science research.

  

(ii) Activities.—EPSCoR shall make grants under this subparagraph for activities consistent with the objectives described in subparagraph (C) in the areas of applied energy research, environmental management, and basic science described in clause (i), including—

(I) to support research that is carried out in partnership with the National Laboratories;

(II) to provide for graduate traineeships;

(III) to support research by early career faculty; and

(IV) to improve research capabilities through biennial research implementation grants.

  

(iii) No cost sharing.—EPSCoR shall not impose any cost-sharing requirement with respect to a grant made under this subparagraph, but may require letters of commitment from National Laboratories.

  

(F) Other activities.—EPSCoR may carry out such activities as may be necessary to meet the objectives described in subparagraph (C) in the areas of applied energy research, environmental management, and basic science described in subparagraph (E)(i).

(G) Program implementation.—

(i) In general.—Not later than 270 days after January 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources and Appropriations of the Senate and the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Appropriations of the House of Representatives a plan describing how the Secretary shall implement EPSCoR.

(ii) Contents of plan.—The plan described in clause (i) shall include a description of—

(I) the management structure of EPSCoR, which shall ensure that all research areas and activities described in this paragraph are incorporated into EPSCoR;

(II) efforts to conduct outreach to inform eligible jurisdictions and faculty of changes to, and opportunities under, EPSCoR;

(III) how EPSCoR plans to increase engagement with eligible jurisdictions, faculty, and State committees, including by holding regular workshops, to increase participation in EPSCoR; and

(IV) any other issues relating to EPSCoR that the Secretary determines appropriate.

  

(H) Program evaluation.—

(i) In general.—Not later than 5 years after January 1, 2021, the Secretary shall contract with a federally funded research and development center, the National Academy of Sciences, or a similar organization to carry out an assessment of the effectiveness of EPSCoR, including an assessment of—

(I) the tangible progress made towards achieving the objectives described in subparagraph (C);

(II) the impact of research supported by EPSCoR on the mission of the Department of Energy; and

(III) any other issues relating to EPSCoR that the Secretary determines appropriate.

  

(ii) Limitation.—The organization with which the Secretary contracts under clause (i) shall not be a National Laboratory.

(iii) Report.—Not later than 6 years after January 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space and Technology and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report describing the results of the assessment carried out under clause (i), including recommendations for improvements that would enable the Secretary to achieve the objectives described in subparagraph (C).

#### (c) Technology transfer

The Secretary shall support technology transfer activities conducted by the National Laboratories. Within 1 year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report on the adequacy of funding for such activities, along with a proposal recommending ways to reduce the length of time required to consummate cooperative research and development agreements.

#### (d) Facilities support for multiprogram energy laboratories

#### (1) Facility policy

The Secretary shall develop and implement a least cost strategy for correcting facility problems, closing unneeded facilities, making facility modifications, and building new facilities at multiprogram energy laboratories.

#### (2) Facility plan

Within 1 year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Congress a comprehensive plan for conducting future facility maintenance, making repairs, modifications, and new additions, and constructing new facilities at multiprogram energy laboratories. Such plan shall provide for facilities work in accordance with the following priorities, listed in descending order of priority:

(A) Providing for the safety and health of employees, visitors, and the general public with regard to correcting existing structural, mechanical, electrical, and environmental deficiencies.

(B) Providing for the repair and rehabilitation of existing facilities to keep them in use and prevent deterioration.

(C) Providing engineering design and construction services for those facilities which require modification or additions in order to meet the needs of new or expanded programs.

  

Such plan shall include plans for new facilities and facility modifications which will be required to meet the Department of Energy's changing missions of the twenty-first century, including schedules and estimates for implementation, and including a section outlining long-term funding requirements consistent with anticipated budgets and annual authorization of appropriations. Such plan shall address the coordination of modernization and consolidation of facilities in order to meet changing mission requirements, and shall provide for annual reports to Congress on accomplishments, conformance to schedules, commitments, and expenditures.

#### (e) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for Supporting Research and Technical Analysis, including Basic Energy Sciences, Energy Research Analysis, University and Science Education, Technology Transfer, Advisory and Oversight Program Direction, and Facilities Support for Multiprogram Energy Laboratories, $966,804,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.

(Pub. L. 102–486, title XXII, §2203, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3087; Pub. L. 105–245, title III, §309(b)(2)(F), Oct. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1853; Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title IX, §9011, Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2606; Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCIV, §9411, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4815.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 116–283 added par. (3) identical to the par. (3) appearing in the amendment by Pub. L. 116–260. See 2020 Amendment note below.

**2020**—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 116–260 added par. (3) and struck out former par. (3) which related to the operation of an Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR).

**1998**—Subsec. (b)(3)(A)(i). Pub. L. 105–245 substituted "Office of Science" for "Office of Energy Research".