### §3078. Repealing and savings provisions

All laws, orders, and regulations inconsistent with the provisions of this title [1](#3078_1_target) are repealed insofar as they are inconsistent with the powers, duties, and responsibilities enacted hereby: *Provided*, That the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense under this title [1](#3078_1_target) shall be administered in conformance with the policy and requirements for administration of budgetary and fiscal matters in the Government generally, including accounting and financial reporting, and that nothing in this title [1](#3078_1_target) shall be construed as eliminating or modifying the powers, duties, and responsibilities of any other department, agency, or officer of the Government in connection with such matters, but no such department, agency, or officer shall exercise any such powers, duties, or responsibilities in a manner that will render ineffective the provisions of this title.[1](#3078_1_target)

(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title III, §312, formerly title IV, §411, as added Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, §11, 63 Stat. 590; renumbered title III, §312, Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, §6742(b)(11), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 2240.)

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in text, means title IV of act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, as added Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, §11, 63 Stat. 585, which enacted this section and enacted and amended various sections in former Title 5, Executive Departments and Government Officers and Employees, and former Title 31, Money and Finance. Title IV of the Act, except for section 411 (this section), was effectively repealed by Pub. L. 87–651, §307, Sept. 7, 1962, 76 Stat. 526, which repealed section 11 of act Aug. 10, 1949, which enacted title IV.

#### Codification

Section 6742(b)(11) of Pub. L. 116–92 renumbered section 411 of title IV of act July 26, 1947, as section 312 without corresponding renumbering of title of Act containing the renumbered section. Credit for this section shows section 312 of the Act, as renumbered, as being contained within title III of the Act and not still within title IV, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Section was classified to section 3006 of this title prior to renumbering by Pub. L. 116–92.

Section was formerly classified to section 412 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as section 3006, and to section 172j of former Title 5 prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by Pub. L. 89–554, §1, Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 378.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#3078_1)