### §2013. Purpose of chapter

It is the purpose of this chapter to effectuate the policies set forth above by providing for—

(a) a program of conducting, assisting, and fostering research and development in order to encourage maximum scientific and industrial progress;

(b) a program for the dissemination of unclassified scientific and technical information and for the control, dissemination, and declassification of Restricted Data, subject to appropriate safeguards, so as to encourage scientific and industrial progress;

(c) a program for Government control of the possession, use, and production of atomic energy and special nuclear material, whether owned by the Government or others, so directed as to make the maximum contribution to the common defense and security and the national welfare, and to provide continued assurance of the Government's ability to enter into and enforce agreements with nations or groups of nations for the control of special nuclear materials and atomic weapons;

(d) a program to encourage widespread participation in the development and utilization of atomic energy for peaceful purposes to the maximum extent consistent with the common defense and security and with the health and safety of the public;

(e) a program of international cooperation to promote the common defense and security and to make available to cooperating nations the benefits of peaceful applications of atomic energy as widely as expanding technology and considerations of the common defense and security will permit; and

(f) a program of administration which will be consistent with the foregoing policies and programs, with international arrangements, and with agreements for cooperation, which will enable the Congress to be currently informed so as to take further legislative action as may be appropriate.

(Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724, title I, §3, as added Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, §1, 68 Stat. 922; amended Pub. L. 88–489, §3, Aug. 26, 1964, 78 Stat. 602; renumbered title I, Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, §902(a)(8), Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 2944.)

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in section 1 of act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724, 60 Stat. 755, which was classified to section 1801 of this title, prior to the general amendment and renumbering of act Aug. 1, 1946, by act Aug. 30, 1954.

#### Amendments

**1964**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 88–489 inserted “whether owned by the Government or others” and “and to provide continued assurance of the Government's ability to enter into and enforce agreements with nations or groups of nations for the control of special nuclear materials and atomic weapons”.