### §16378. Funding

#### (a) Oil and gas lease income

For each of fiscal years 2007 through 2017, from any Federal royalties, rents, and bonuses derived from Federal onshore and offshore oil and gas leases issued under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) and the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) which are deposited in the Treasury, and after distribution of any such funds as described in subsection (c), $50,000,000 shall be deposited into the Ultra-Deepwater and Unconventional Natural Gas and Other Petroleum Research Fund (in this section referred to as the “Fund”). For purposes of this section, the term “royalties” excludes proceeds from the sale of royalty production taken in kind and royalty production that is transferred under section 27(a)(3) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1353(a)(3)).

#### (b) Obligational authority

Monies in the Fund shall be available to the Secretary for obligation under this part without fiscal year limitation, to remain available until expended.

#### (c) Prior distributions

The distributions described in subsection (a) are those required by law—

(1) to States and to the Reclamation Fund under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)); and

(2) to other funds receiving monies from Federal oil and gas leasing programs, including—

(A) any recipients pursuant to section 8(g) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(g));

(B) the Land and Water Conservation Fund, pursuant to section 460l–5(c) of title 16;

(C) the Historic Preservation Fund, pursuant to section 470h of title 16; and

(D) the coastal impact assistance program established under section 31 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act \[43 U.S.C. 1356a\].

#### (d) Allocation

Amounts obligated from the Fund under subsection (a)(1) in each fiscal year shall be allocated as follows:

(1) 35 percent shall be for activities under section 16371(b)(1) of this title.

(2) 32.5 percent shall be for activities under section 16371(b)(2) of this title.

(3) 7.5 percent shall be for activities under section 16371(b)(3) of this title.

(4) 25 percent shall be for complementary research under section 16371(b)(4) of this title and other activities under section 16371(b) of this title to include program direction funds, overall program oversight, contract management, and the establishment and operation of a technical committee to ensure that in-house research activities funded under section 16371(b)(4) of this title are technically complementary to, and not duplicative of, research conducted under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of section 16371(b) of this title.

#### (e) Authorization of appropriations

In addition to other amounts that are made available to carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2016.

#### (f) Fund

There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a separate fund to be known as the “Ultra-Deepwater and Unconventional Natural Gas and Other Petroleum Research Fund”.

(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, §999H, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 924.)

#### References in Text

The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is act Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 345, 67 Stat. 462, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter III (§1331 et seq.) of chapter 29 of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1331 of Title 43 and Tables.

The Mineral Leasing Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c)(1), is act Feb. 25, 1920, ch. 85, 41 Stat. 437, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 3A (§181 et seq.) of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 181 of Title 30 and Tables.