### §16373. Additional requirements for awards

#### (a) Demonstration projects

An application for an award under this part for a demonstration project shall describe with specificity the intended commercial use of the technology to be demonstrated.

#### (b) Flexibility in locating demonstration projects

Subject to the limitation in section 16371(c) of this title, a demonstration project under this part relating to an ultra-deepwater technology or an ultra-deepwater architecture may be conducted in deepwater depths.

#### (c) Intellectual property agreements

If an award under this part is made to a consortium (other than the program consortium), the consortium shall provide to the Secretary a signed contract agreed to by all members of the consortium describing the rights of each member to intellectual property used or developed under the award.

#### (d) Technology transfer

Two and one-half percent of the amount of each award made under this part shall be designated for technology transfer and outreach activities under this part.

#### (e) Cost sharing reduction for independent producers

In applying the cost sharing requirements under section 16352 of this title to an award under this part the Secretary may reduce or eliminate the non-Federal requirement if the Secretary determines that the reduction is necessary and appropriate considering the technological risks involved in the project.

#### (f) Information sharing

All results of the research administered by the program consortium shall be made available to the public consistent with Department policy and practice on information sharing and intellectual property agreements.

(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, §999C, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 921.)