### §7172. Jurisdiction of Commission

#### (a) Transfer of functions from Federal Power Commission

(1) There are transferred to, and vested in, the Commission the following functions of the Federal Power Commission or of any member of the Commission or any officer or component of the Commission:

(A) the investigation, issuance, transfer, renewal, revocation, and enforcement of licenses and permits for the construction, operation, and maintenance of dams, water conduits, reservoirs, powerhouses, transmission lines, or other works for the development and improvement of navigation and for the development and utilization of power across, along, from, or in navigable waters under part I of the Federal Power Act \[16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.\];

(B) the establishment, review, and enforcement of rates and charges for the transmission or sale of electric energy, including determinations on construction work in progress, under part II of the Federal Power Act \[16 U.S.C. 824 et seq.\], and the interconnection, under section 202(b), of such Act \[16 U.S.C. 824a(b)\], of facilities for the generation, transmission, and sale of electric energy (other than emergency interconnection);

(C) the establishment, review, and enforcement of rates and charges for the transportation and sale of natural gas by a producer or gatherer or by a natural gas pipeline or natural gas company under sections 1, 4, 5, and 6 of the Natural Gas Act \[15 U.S.C. 717, 717c to 717e\];

(D) the issuance of a certificate of public convenience and necessity, including abandonment of facilities or services, and the establishment of physical connections under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act \[15 U.S.C. 717f\];

(E) the establishment, review, and enforcement of curtailments, other than the establishment and review of priorities for such curtailments, under the Natural Gas Act \[15 U.S.C. 717 et seq.\]; and

(F) the regulation of mergers and securities acquisition under the Federal Power Act \[16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.\] and Natural Gas Act \[15 U.S.C. 717 et seq.\].

  

(2) The Commission may exercise any power under the following sections to the extent the Commission determines such power to be necessary to the exercise of any function within the jurisdiction of the Commission:

(A) sections 4, 301, 302, 306 through 309, and 312 through 316 of the Federal Power Act \[16 U.S.C. 797, 825, 825a, 825e to 825h, 825k to 825o\]; and

(B) sections 8, 9, 13 through 17, 20, and 21 of the Natural Gas Act \[15 U.S.C. 717g, 717h, 717l to 717p, 717s, 717t\].

#### (b) Repealed. Pub. L. 103–272, §7(b), July 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 1379

#### (c) Consideration of proposals made by Secretary to amend regulations issued under section 753 of title 15; exception

(1) Pursuant to the procedures specified in section 7174 of this title and except as provided in paragraph (2), the Commission shall have jurisdiction to consider any proposal by the Secretary to amend the regulation required to be issued under section 753(a) [1](#7172_1_target) of title 15 which is required by section 757 or 760a [1](#7172_1_target) of title 15 to be transmitted by the President to, and reviewed by, each House of Congress, under section 6421 of this title.

(2) In the event that the President determines that an emergency situation of overriding national importance exists and requires the expeditious promulgation of a rule described in paragraph (1), the President may direct the Secretary to assume sole jurisdiction over the promulgation of such rule, and such rule shall be transmitted by the President to, and reviewed by, each House of Congress under section 757 or 760a [1](#7172_1_target) of title 15, and section 6421 of this title.

#### (d) Matters involving agency determinations to be made on record after agency hearing

The Commission shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine any other matter arising under any other function of the Secretary—

(1) involving any agency determination required by law to be made on the record after an opportunity for an agency hearing; or

(2) involving any other agency determination which the Secretary determines shall be made on the record after an opportunity for an agency hearing,

  

except that nothing in this subsection shall require that functions under sections 6213 and 6214 [1](#7172_1_target) of this title shall be within the jurisdiction of the Commission unless the Secretary assigns such a function to the Commission.

#### (e) Matters assigned by Secretary after public notice and matters referred under section 7174 of this title

In addition to the other provisions of this section, the Commission shall have jurisdiction over any other matter which the Secretary may assign to the Commission after public notice, or which are required to be referred to the Commission pursuant to section 7174 of this title.

#### (f) Limitation

No function described in this section which regulates the exports or imports of natural gas or electricity shall be within the jurisdiction of the Commission unless the Secretary assigns such a function to the Commission.

#### (g) Final agency action

The decision of the Commission involving any function within its jurisdiction, other than action by it on a matter referred to it pursuant to section 7174 of this title, shall be final agency action within the meaning of section 704 of title 5 and shall not be subject to further review by the Secretary or any officer or employee of the Department.

#### (h) Rules, regulations, and statements of policy

The Commission is authorized to prescribe rules, regulations, and statements of policy of general applicability with respect to any function under the jurisdiction of the Commission pursuant to this section.

(Pub. L. 95–91, title IV, §402, Aug. 4, 1977, 91 Stat. 583; Pub. L. 103–272, §7(b), July 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 1379.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Power Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), (B), (F), is act June 10, 1920, ch. 285, 41 Stat. 1063, which is classified generally to chapter 12 (§791a et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. Parts I and II of the Federal Power Act are classified generally to subchapters I (§791a et seq.) and II (§824 et seq.), respectively, of chapter 12 of Title 16. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 791a of Title 16 and Tables.

The Natural Gas Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(E), (F), is act June 21, 1938, ch. 556, 52 Stat. 821, which is classified generally to chapter 15B (§717 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 717w of Title 15 and Tables.

Sections 753, 757, and 760a of title 15, referred to in subsec. (c), were omitted from the Code pursuant to section 760g of Title 15, which provided for the expiration of the President's authority under those sections on Sept. 30, 1981.

Section 6214 of this title, referred to in subsec. (d), was repealed by Pub. L. 106–469, title I, §103(3), Nov. 9, 2000, 114 Stat. 2029.

#### Amendments

**1994**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 103–272 struck out subsec. (b) which read as follows: "There are transferred to, and vested in, the Commission all functions and authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission or any officer or component of such Commission where the regulatory function establishes rates or charges for the transportation of oil by pipeline or establishes the valuation of any such pipeline." See section 60502 of Title 49, Transportation.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Oil Pipeline Regulatory Reform

Pub. L. 102–486, title XVIII, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3010, provided that:

#### "SEC. 1801. OIL PIPELINE RATEMAKING METHODOLOGY.

"(a) Establishment.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 24, 1992\], the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission shall issue a final rule which establishes a simplified and generally applicable ratemaking methodology for oil pipelines in accordance with section 1(5) of part I of the Interstate Commerce Act \[former 49 U.S.C. 1(5)\].

"(b) Effective Date.—The final rule to be issued under subsection (a) may not take effect before the 365th day following the date of the issuance of the rule.

#### "SEC. 1802. STREAMLINING OF COMMISSION PROCEDURES.

"(a) Rulemaking.—Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 24, 1992\], the Commission shall issue a final rule to streamline procedures of the Commission relating to oil pipeline rates in order to avoid unnecessary regulatory costs and delays.

"(b) Scope of Rulemaking.—Issues to be considered in the rulemaking proceeding to be conducted under subsection (a) shall include the following:

"(1) Identification of information to be filed with an oil pipeline tariff and the availability to the public of any analysis of such tariff filing performed by the Commission or its staff.

"(2) Qualification for standing (including definitions of economic interest) of parties who protest oil pipeline tariff filings or file complaints thereto.

"(3) The level of specificity required for a protest or complaint and guidelines for Commission action on the portion of the tariff or rate filing subject to protest or complaint.

"(4) An opportunity for the oil pipeline to file a response for the record to an initial protest or complaint.

"(5) Identification of specific circumstances under which Commission staff may initiate a protest.

"(c) Additional Procedural Changes.—In conducting the rulemaking proceeding to carry out subsection (a), the Commission shall identify and transmit to Congress any other procedural changes relating to oil pipeline rates which the Commission determines are necessary to avoid unnecessary regulatory costs and delays and for which additional legislative authority may be necessary.

"(d) Withdrawal of Tariffs and Complaints.—

"(1) Withdrawal of tariffs.—If an oil pipeline tariff which is filed under part I of the Interstate Commerce Act \[former 49 U.S.C. 1 et seq.\] and which is subject to investigation is withdrawn—

"(A) any proceeding with respect to such tariff shall be terminated;

"(B) the previous tariff rate shall be reinstated; and

"(C) any amounts collected under the withdrawn tariff rate which are in excess of the previous tariff rate shall be refunded.

"(2) Withdrawal of complaints.—If a complaint which is filed under section 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act \[former 49 U.S.C. 13\] with respect to an oil pipeline tariff is withdrawn, any proceeding with respect to such complaint shall be terminated.

"(e) Alternative Dispute Resolution.—To the maximum extent practicable, the Commission shall establish appropriate alternative dispute resolution procedures, including required negotiations and voluntary arbitration, early in an oil pipeline rate proceeding as a method preferable to adjudication in resolving disputes relating to the rate. Any proposed rates derived from implementation of such procedures shall be considered by the Commission on an expedited basis for approval.

#### "SEC. 1803. PROTECTION OF CERTAIN EXISTING RATES.

"(a) Rates Deemed Just and Reasonable.—Except as provided in subsection (b)—

"(1) any rate in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 24, 1992\] shall be deemed to be just and reasonable (within the meaning of section 1(5) of the Interstate Commerce Act \[former 49 U.S.C. 1(5)\]); and

"(2) any rate in effect on the 365th day preceding the date of such enactment shall be deemed to be just and reasonable (within the meaning of such section 1(5)) regardless of whether or not, with respect to such rate, a new rate has been filed with the Commission during such 365-day period;

if the rate in effect, as described in paragraph (1) or (2), has not been subject to protest, investigation, or complaint during such 365-day period.

"(b) Changed Circumstances.—No person may file a complaint under section 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act \[former 49 U.S.C. 13\] against a rate deemed to be just and reasonable under subsection (a) unless—

"(1) evidence is presented to the Commission which establishes that a substantial change has occurred after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 24, 1992\]—

"(A) in the economic circumstances of the oil pipeline which were a basis for the rate; or

"(B) in the nature of the services provided which were a basis for the rate; or

"(2) the person filing the complaint was under a contractual prohibition against the filing of a complaint which was in effect on the date of enactment of this Act and had been in effect prior to January 1, 1991, provided that a complaint by a party bound by such prohibition is brought within 30 days after the expiration of such prohibition.

If the Commission determines pursuant to a proceeding instituted as a result of a complaint under section 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act that the rate is not just and reasonable, the rate shall not be deemed to be just and reasonable. Any tariff reduction or refunds that may result as an outcome of such a complaint shall be prospective from the date of the filing of the complaint.

"(c) Limitation Regarding Unduly Discriminatory or Preferential Tariffs.—Nothing in this section shall prohibit any aggrieved person from filing a complaint under section 13 or section 15(l) of the Interstate Commerce Act \[former 49 U.S.C. 13, 15(1)\] challenging any tariff provision as unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential.

#### "SEC. 1804. DEFINITIONS.

"For the purposes of this title, the following definitions apply:

"(1) Commission.—The term 'Commission' means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and, unless the context requires otherwise, includes the Oil Pipeline Board and any other office or component of the Commission to which the functions and authority vested in the Commission under section 402(b) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7172(b)) are delegated.

"(2) Oil pipeline.—

"(A) In general.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term 'oil pipeline' means any common carrier (within the meaning of the Interstate Commerce Act \[former 49 U.S.C. 1 et seq.\]) which transports oil by pipeline subject to the functions and authority vested in the Commission under section 402(b) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7172(b)).

"(B) Exception.—The term 'oil pipeline' does not include the Trans-Alaska Pipeline authorized by the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act (43 U.S.C. 1651 et seq.) or any pipeline delivering oil directly or indirectly to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline.

"(3) Oil.—The term 'oil' has the same meaning as is given such term for purposes of the transfer of functions from the Interstate Commerce Commission to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under section 402(b) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7172(b)).

"(4) Rate.—The term 'rate' means all charges that an oil pipeline requires shippers to pay for transportation services."

[1 See References in Text note below.](#7172_1)