### §1649a. Hispanic-serving institution agricultural land national resources leadership program

#### (a) Definition of Hispanic-serving institution

In this section, the term “Hispanic-serving institution” has the meaning given that term in section 1101a(a)(5) of title 20.

#### (b) Grant authority

The Secretary of Agriculture may make grants, on a competitive basis, to Hispanic-serving institutions for the purpose of establishing an undergraduate scholarship program to assist in the recruitment, retention, and training of Hispanics and other under-represented groups in forestry and related fields.

#### (c) Use of grant funds

Grants made under this section shall be used to recruit, retain, train, and develop professionals to work in forestry and related fields with Federal agencies, such as the Forest Service, State agencies, and private-sector entities.

#### (d) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.

(Pub. L. 110–234, title VIII, §8402, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1302; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title VIII, §8402, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2064.)

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

Section was enacted as part of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, and not as part of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Research Act of 1978 which comprises this subchapter.

#### Effective Date

Enactment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 8701 of Title 7, Agriculture.