### §9858r. Studies on waiting lists

#### (a) Study

The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct studies to determine, for each State, the number of families that—

(1) are eligible to receive assistance under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 \[42 U.S.C. 9857 et seq.\];

(2) have applied for the assistance, identified by the type of assistance requested; and

(3) have been placed on a waiting list for the assistance.

#### (b) Report

The Comptroller General shall prepare a report containing the results of each study and shall submit the report to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives—

(1) not later than 2 years after November 19, 2014; and

(2) every 2 years thereafter.

#### (c) Definition

In this section, the term "State" has the meaning given the term in section 658P of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858n).

(Pub. L. 113–186, §12, Nov. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 2001.)

#### References in Text

The Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is subchapter C (§658A et seq.) of chapter 8 of subtitle A of title VI of Pub. L. 97–35, as added by Pub. L. 101–508, title V, §5082(2), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1388–236, which is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 9857(a) of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 2014, and not as part of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990, which comprises this subchapter.

#### Change of Name

Committee on Education and the Workforce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Education and Labor of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2019.