### §5938. Agricultural and rural transportation research and education

#### (a) In general

The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall make competitive grants to institutions of higher education to carry out agricultural and rural transportation research and education activities.

#### (b) Activities

Research and education grants made under this section shall be used to address rural transportation and logistics needs of agricultural producers and related rural businesses, including—

(1) the transportation of biofuels; and

(2) the export of agricultural products.

#### (c) Selection criteria

#### (1) In general

The Secretary shall award grants under this section on the basis of the transportation research, education, and outreach expertise of the applicant, as determined by the Secretary.

#### (2) Priority

In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to institutions of higher education for use in coordinating research and education activities with other institutions of higher education with similar agricultural and rural transportation research and education programs.

#### (d) Diversification of research

The Secretary shall award grants under this section in areas that are regionally diverse and broadly representative of the diversity of agricultural production and related transportation needs in the rural areas of the United States.

#### (e) Matching funds requirement

The Secretary shall require each recipient of a grant under this section to provide, from non-Federal sources, in cash or in kind, 50 percent of the cost of carrying out activities under the grant.

#### (f) Grant review

A grant shall be awarded under this section on a competitive, peer- and merit-reviewed basis in accordance with section 7613(a) of this title.

#### (g) No duplication

In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall ensure that activities funded under this section do not duplicate the efforts of the University Transportation Centers described in sections 5505 and 5506 [1](#5938_1_target) of title 49.

#### (h) Authorization of appropriations

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

(Pub. L. 110–234, title VII, §7529, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1278; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title VII, §7529, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2040.)

#### References in Text

Section 5506 of title 49, referred to in subsec. (g), was repealed by Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, §52010(a), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 887.

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

Section was enacted as part of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, and not as part of subtitle H of title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 which comprises this subchapter.

#### Effective Date

Enactment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 8701 of this title.

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see section 8701 of this title.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#5938_1)