### §5925b. Organic agriculture research and extension initiative

#### (a) Competitive specialized research and extension grants authorized

In consultation with the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board, the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) may make competitive grants to support research and extension activities regarding organically grown and processed agricultural commodities for the purposes of—

(1) facilitating the development of organic agriculture production, breeding, and processing methods;

(2) evaluating the potential economic benefits to producers and processors who use organic methods;

(3) exploring international trade opportunities for organically grown and processed agricultural commodities;

(4) determining desirable traits for organic commodities;

(5) identifying marketing and policy constraints on the expansion of organic agriculture;

(6) conducting advanced on-farm research and development that emphasizes observation of, experimentation with, and innovation for working organic farms, including research relating to production and marketing and to socioeconomic conditions;

(7) examining optimal conservation and environmental outcomes relating to organically produced agricultural products; and

(8) developing new and improved seed varieties that are particularly suited for organic agriculture.

#### (b) Grant types and process, prohibition on construction

Paragraphs (4), (7), (8), and (11)(B) of subsection (b) of section 450i of this title shall apply with respect to the making of grants under this section.

#### (c) Matching funds required

#### (1) In general

The Secretary shall require the recipient of a grant under this section to provide funds or in-kind support from non-Federal sources in an amount at least equal to the amount provided by the Federal Government.

#### (2) Waiver authority

The Secretary may waive the matching funds requirement specified in paragraph (1) with respect to a research project if the Secretary determines that—

(A) the results of the project, while of particular benefit to a specified agricultural commodity, are likely to be applicable to agricultural commodities generally; or

(B) the project involves a minor commodity, the project deals with scientifically important research, and the grant recipient is unable to satisfy the matching funds requirement.

#### (d) Partnerships encouraged

Following the completion of a peer review process for grant proposals received under this section, the Secretary may provide a priority to those grant proposals, found in the peer review process to be scientifically meritorious, that involve the cooperation of multiple entities.

#### (e) Funding

On October 1, 2003, and each October 1 thereafter through October 1, 2007, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer $3,000,000 to the Secretary of Agriculture for this section.

#### (f) Funding

#### (1) Mandatory funding for fiscal years 2009 through 2012

Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the Secretary shall make available to carry out this section—

(A) $18,000,000 for fiscal year 2009; and

(B) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2012.

#### (2) Discretionary funding for fiscal years 2009 through 2012

In addition to amounts made available under paragraph (1), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2012.

#### (3) Fiscal year 2013

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2013.

(Pub. L. 101–624, title XVI, §1672B, as added Pub. L. 105–185, title II, §244, June 23, 1998, 112 Stat. 555; amended Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, §7218, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 449; Pub. L. 110–234, title VII, §§7206(a), 7406(d)(3), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1238, 1252; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title VII, §§7206(a), 7406(d)(3), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1999, 2013; Pub. L. 112–240, title VII, §701(e)(1), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2364.)

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by Pub. L. 110–234 were repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### Amendments

**2013**—Subsec. (f)(1). Pub. L. 112–240, §701(e)(1)(A), substituted “Mandatory funding for fiscal years 2009 through 2012” for “In general” in heading.

Subsec. (f)(2). Pub. L. 112–240, §701(e)(1)(B), substituted “Discretionary funding for fiscal years 2009 through 2012” for “Additional funding” in heading.

Subsec. (f)(3). Pub. L. 112–240, §701(e)(1)(C), added par. (3).

**2008**—Subsec. (a)(7), (8). Pub. L. 110–246, §7206(a)(1), added pars. (7) and (8).

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 110–246, §7406(d)(3), substituted “Paragraphs (4), (7), (8), and (11)(B)” for “Paragraphs (1), (6), (7), and (11)”.

Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 110–246, §7206(a)(2), added subsec. (f).

**2002**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 107–171, §7218(1)(A), inserted “, breeding,” after “production”.

Subsec. (a)(4) to (6). Pub. L. 107–171, §7218(1)(B)–(D), added pars. (4) to (6).

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 107–171, §7218(2), amended heading and text of subsec. (e) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 1999 through 2002.”

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 112–240 effective Sept. 30, 2012, see section 701(j) of Pub. L. 112–240, set out in a 1-Year Extension of Agricultural Programs note under section 8701 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8701 of this title.

Amendment by section 7406(d)(3) of Pub. L. 110–246 inapplicable to any solicitation for grant applications issued by the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service before June 18, 2008, see section 7406(c) of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 450i of this title.

#### Coordination of Projects and Activities

Pub. L. 110–234, title VII, §7206(b), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1239, and Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title VII, §7206(b), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2000, provided that: “In carrying out the amendment made by this section \[amending this section\], the Secretary \[of Agriculture\] shall ensure that the Division Chief of the applicable Research, Education, and Extension Office established under section 251 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6971) coordinates projects and activities under this section to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that unnecessary duplication of effort is eliminated or minimized.”

\[Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical provisions. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 8701 of this title.\]

#### Report on Producers and Handlers of Organic Agricultural Products

Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, §7409, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 461, provided that: “Not later than 1 year after funds are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary \[of Agriculture\] shall submit to Congress a report that—

“(1) describes—

“(A) the extent to which producers and handlers of organic agricultural products are contributing to research and promotion programs of the Department \[of Agriculture\];

“(B) the extent to which producers and handlers of organic agricultural products are surveyed for ideas for research and promotion;

“(C) ways in which the programs reflect the contributions made by producers and handlers of organic agricultural products and directly benefit the producers and handlers; and

“(D) the implementation of initiatives that directly benefit organic producers and handlers; and

“(2) evaluates industry and other proposals for improving the treatment of certified organic agricultural products under Federal marketing orders, including proposals to target additional resources for research and promotion of organic products and to differentiate between certified organic and other products in new or existing volume limitations or other orderly marketing requirements.”