### §410bb–1. Administration

#### (a) Establishment; notice in Federal Register

The Secretary shall establish the park by publication of a notice to that effect in the Federal Register at such time as he deems sufficient lands, waters, and interests therein have been acquired for administration in accordance with the purposes of this subchapter. Pending such establishment and thereafter, the Secretary shall administer lands, waters, and interests therein acquired for the park in accordance with the provisions of sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 [1](#410bb-1_1_target) of this title, as amended and supplemented, and sections 461 to 467 [1](#410bb-1_1_target) of this title, as amended.

#### (b) Cooperation with Federal agencies, State and local public bodies, and private interests for development and use of lands

The Secretary is authorized to cooperate and enter into agreements with other Federal agencies, State and local public bodies, and private interests, relating to planning, development, use, acquisition, or disposal (including as provided in sections 100903 and 102901 of title 54) of lands, structures, and waters in or adjacent to the park or otherwise affecting the administration, use, and enjoyment thereof, in order to contribute to the development and management of such lands in a manner compatible with the purposes of the park. Such agreements, acquisitions, dispositions, development, or use and land-use plans shall provide for the preservation of historical sites and scenic areas, recreation, and visitor enjoyment to the fullest extent practicable.

#### (c) Restoration of property without regard of United States title thereto

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may restore and rehabilitate property within the park pursuant to cooperative agreements without regard as to whether title thereto is in the United States.

(Pub. L. 94–323, §2, June 30, 1976, 90 Stat. 718.)

#### References in Text

Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), were repealed by Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272. For disposition of sections, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

Sections 461 to 467 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), were repealed by Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272. For disposition of sections, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

#### Codification

In subsec. (b), "sections 100903 and 102901 of title 54" substituted for "section 5 of the Act of July 15, 1968, 82 Stat. 356; 16 U.S.C. 460l–22)" on authority of Pub. L. 113–287, §6(e), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272, which Act enacted Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#410bb-1_1)