### §9303. Definitions

In this chapter:

#### (1) Appropriate congressional committees

The term "appropriate congressional committees" means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;

(D) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives;

(E) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives; and

(F) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

#### (2) Feed the Future Innovation Labs

The term "Feed the Future Innovation Labs" means research partnerships led by United States universities that advance solutions to reduce global hunger, poverty, and malnutrition.

#### (3) Food and nutrition security

The term "food and nutrition security" means access to, and availability, utilization, and stability of, sufficient food to meet caloric and nutritional needs for an active and healthy life.

#### (4) Global Food Security Strategy

The term "Global Food Security Strategy" means the strategy developed and implemented pursuant to section 9304(a) of this title.

#### (5) Key stakeholders

The term "key stakeholders" means actors engaged in efforts to advance global food security programs and objectives, including—

(A) relevant Federal departments and agencies;

(B) national and local governments in target countries;

(C) other bilateral donors;

(D) international and regional organizations;

(E) international, regional, and local financial institutions;

(F) international, regional, and local private voluntary, nongovernmental, faith-based, and civil society organizations;

(G) the private sector, including agribusinesses and relevant commodities groups;

(H) agricultural producers, including farmer organizations, cooperatives, small-scale producers, and women; and

(I) agricultural research and academic institutions, including land-grant universities and extension services.

#### (6) Malnutrition

The term "malnutrition" means poor nutritional status caused by nutritional deficiency or excess.

#### (7) Relevant Federal departments and agencies

The term "relevant Federal departments and agencies" means the United States Agency for International Development, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, the Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, the Millennium Challenge Corporation, the United States International Development Finance Corporation, the Peace Corps, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the United States African Development Foundation, the United States Geological Survey, and any other department or agency specified by the President for purposes of this section.

#### (8) Resilience

The term "resilience" means the ability of people, households, communities, countries, and systems to mitigate, adapt to, and recover from shocks and stresses to food security in a manner that reduces chronic vulnerability and facilitates inclusive growth.

#### (9) Small-scale producer

The term "small-scale producer" means farmers, pastoralists, foresters, and fishers that have a low asset base and limited resources, including land, capital, skills and labor, and, in the case of farmers, typically farm on fewer than 5 hectares of land.

#### (10) Stunting

The term "stunting" refers to a condition that—

(A) is measured by a height-to-age ratio that is more than 2 standard deviations below the median for the population;

(B) manifests in children who are younger than 2 years of age;

(C) is a process that can continue in children after they reach 2 years of age, resulting in an individual being "stunted";

(D) is a sign of chronic malnutrition; and

(E) can lead to long-term poor health, delayed motor development, impaired cognitive function, and decreased immunity.

#### (11) Sustainable

The term "sustainable" means the ability of a target country, community, implementing partner, or intended beneficiary to maintain, over time, the programs authorized and outcomes achieved pursuant to this chapter.

#### (12) Target country

The term "target country" means a developing country that is selected to participate in agriculture and nutrition security programs under the Global Food Security Strategy pursuant to the selection criteria described in section 9304(a)(2) of this title, including criteria such as the potential for agriculture-led economic growth, government commitment to agricultural investment and policy reform, opportunities for partnerships and regional synergies, the level of need, and resource availability.

(Pub. L. 114–195, §4, July 20, 2016, 130 Stat. 676; Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title VI, §1470(s), Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3519.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Par. (7). Pub. L. 115–254 substituted "United States International Development Finance Corporation" for "Overseas Private Investment Corporation".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–254 effective at the end of the transition period, as defined in section 9681 of this title, see section 1470(w) of Pub. L. 115–254, set out as a note under section 905 of Title 2, The Congress.