### §3903. Duties, responsibilities, authority, and reports

(a) Sections 4, 5, 6 (other than subsection (a)(7) and (8) thereof), and 7 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App. 3) shall apply to the Inspector General of the Government Publishing Office and the Office of such Inspector General and such sections shall be applied to the Government Publishing Office and the Director of the Government Publishing Office by substituting—

(1) "Government Publishing Office" for "establishment"; and

(2) "Director of the Government Publishing Office" for "head of the establishment".

  

(b) The Inspector General, in carrying out the provisions of this chapter, is authorized to select, appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of Inspector General subject to the provisions of this title governing selections, appointments, and employment in the Government Publishing Office (and any regulations thereunder).

(Added Pub. L. 100–504, title II, §202, Oct. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 2531; amended Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, §1301(b), (c)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537.)

#### References in Text

Sections 4, 5, 6, and 7 of the Inspector General Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (a), are sections 4, 5, 6, and 7 of Pub. L. 95–452, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Amendments

**2014**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 113–235, §1301(c)(1), substituted "Director of the Government Publishing Office" for "Public Printer" in introductory provisions and par. (2).

#### Change of Name

"Government Publishing Office" substituted for "Government Printing Office" wherever appearing in text on authority of section 1301(b) of Pub. L. 113–235, set out as a note preceding section 301 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Oct. 18, 1988, see section 206 of 100–504, set out as a note under section 3901 of this title.