### §3902. Appointment of Inspector General; supervision; removal

(a) There shall be at the head of the Office of Inspector General, an Inspector General who shall be appointed by the Director of the Government Publishing Office without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, public administration, or investigations. The Inspector General shall report to, and be under the general supervision of, the Director of the Government Publishing Office. The Director of the Government Publishing Office shall have no authority to prevent or prohibit the Inspector General from initiating, carrying out, or completing any audit or investigation, or from issuing any subpena during the course of any audit or investigation.

(b) The Inspector General may be removed from office by the Director of the Government Publishing Office. The Director of the Government Publishing Office shall, promptly upon such removal, communicate in writing the reasons for any such removal to each House of the Congress.

(Added Pub. L. 100–504, title II, §202, Oct. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 2530; amended Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, §1301(c)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537.)

#### Amendments

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–235 substituted "Director of the Government Publishing Office" for "Public Printer" wherever appearing.

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Oct. 18, 1988, see section 206 of 100–504, set out as a note under section 3901 of this title.