### §625. Authority to vacate promotions to grades of brigadier general and rear admiral (lower half)

(a) The President may vacate the promotion to the grade of brigadier general or rear admiral (lower half) of an officer who has served less than 18 months in that grade after promotion to that grade under this chapter.

(b) An officer of the Army, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force whose promotion is vacated under this section holds the regular grade of colonel, if he is a regular officer, or the reserve grade of colonel, if he is a reserve officer. An officer of the Navy whose promotion is vacated under this section holds the regular grade of captain, if he is a regular officer, or the reserve grade of captain, if he is a reserve officer.

(c) The position on the active-duty list of an officer whose promotion is vacated under this section is the position he would have held had he not been promoted to the grade of brigadier general or rear admiral (lower half).

(Added Pub. L. 96–513, title I, §105, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2858; amended Pub. L. 97–86, title IV, §405(b)(1), (4)(A), Dec. 1, 1981, 95 Stat. 1105; Pub. L. 99–145, title V, §514(b)(1), (4)(A), Nov. 8, 1985, 99 Stat. 628; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §924(b)(3)(H), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3821.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–283 substituted "Marine Corps, or Space Force" for "or Marine Corps".

**1985**—Pub. L. 99–145 substituted "rear admiral (lower half)" for "commodore" in section catchline and subsecs. (a) and (c).

**1981**—Pub. L. 97–86 substituted "commodore" for "commodore admiral" in section catchline and subsecs. (a) and (c).

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 97–86 effective Sept. 15, 1981, see section 405(f) of Pub. L. 97–86, set out as a note under section 101 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Sept. 15, 1981, but the authority to prescribe regulations under this section effective on Dec. 12, 1980, see section 701 of Pub. L. 96–513, set out as an Effective Date of 1980 Amendment note under section 101 of this title.