### §9420. Recruit basic training: privacy

The Secretary of the Air Force shall require that access by military training instructors and other training personnel to a living area in which recruits are housed during basic training shall be limited after the end of the training day, other than in the case of an emergency or other exigent circumstance, to military training instructors and other training personnel who are of the same sex as the recruits housed in that living area or to superiors in the chain of command of those recruits who, if not of the same sex as the recruits housed in that living area, are accompanied by a member (other than a recruit) who is of the same sex as the recruits housed in that living area.

(Added Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title V, §522(c)(1), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2013, §9320; renumbered §9420, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(a)(3), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1832.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 9320 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Implementation

Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title V, §522(c)(3), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2013, provided that: "The Secretary of the Air Force shall implement section 9320 \[now 9420\] of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), as rapidly as feasible and shall ensure that the provisions of that section are applied to all recruit basic training classes beginning not later than the first such class that enters basic training on or after April 15, 1999."