### §5016. Assistant Secretaries of the Navy

(a) There are four Assistant Secretaries of the Navy. They shall be appointed from civilian life by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

(b)(1) The Assistant Secretaries shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Secretary of the Navy may prescribe.

(2) One of the Assistant Secretaries shall be the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. He shall have as his principal duty the overall supervision of manpower and reserve component affairs of the Department of the Navy.

(3)(A) One of the Assistant Secretaries shall be the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Financial Management.

(B) The Assistant Secretary shall be appointed from among persons who have significant budget, financial management, or audit experience in complex organizations.

(C) The principal responsibility of the Assistant Secretary shall be the exercise of the comptroller functions of the Department of the Navy, including financial management functions. The Assistant Secretary shall be responsible for all financial management activities and operations of the Department of the Navy and shall advise the Secretary of the Navy on financial management.

(4)(A) One of the Assistant Secretaries shall be the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development, and Acquisition. The principal duty of the Assistant Secretary shall be the overall supervision of research, development, and acquisition matters of the Department of the Navy.

(B) The Assistant Secretary shall have a Principal Military Deputy, who shall be an officer of the Navy or the Marine Corps on active duty. The Principal Military Deputy shall be appointed from among officers who have significant experience in the areas of acquisition and program management. The position of Principal Military Deputy shall be designated as a critical acquisition position under section 1733 of this title. In the event of a vacancy in the position of Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development, and Acquisition, the Principal Military Deputy may serve as Acting Assistant Secretary for a period of not more than one year.

(Added Pub. L. 99–433, title V, §511(c)(4), Oct. 1, 1986, 100 Stat. 1047; amended Pub. L. 100–456, div. A, title VII, §702(b)\[(1)\], Sept. 29, 1988, 102 Stat. 1994; Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title IX, §908(b), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 278; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, §502(t), title VIII, §802(b), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2104, 2249; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title IX, §921(b), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1524.)

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 5034 of this title prior to enactment of Pub. L. 99–433.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 115–91 designated first sentence as subpar. (A), designated second and third sentences as subpar. (C) and substituted "The principal responsibility of the Assistant Secretary shall be" for "The Assistant Secretary shall have as his principal responsibility" therein, and added subpar. (B).

**2016**—Subsec. (b)(4)(B). Pub. L. 114–328, §802(b), inserted at end "In the event of a vacancy in the position of Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development, and Acquisition, the Principal Military Deputy may serve as Acting Assistant Secretary for a period of not more than one year."

Pub. L. 114–328, §502(t), substituted "an officer of the Navy or the Marine Corps" for "a vice admiral of the Navy or a lieutenant general of the Marine Corps".

**2008**—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 110–181 added par. (4).

**1988**—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 100–456 added par. (3).

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

For applicability of appointment qualifications imposed by section 921 of Pub. L. 115–91 to certain appointments made on or after Dec. 12, 2017, see section 921(d) of Pub. L. 115–91, set out as a note under section 3016 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 100–456 effective Jan. 20, 1989, see section 702(e)(1) of Pub. L. 100–456, set out as a note under section 3016 of this title.