### §2001. Designation of United States Anti-Doping Agency

#### (a) Definitions

In this subchapter:

#### (1) United States Olympic Committee

The term "United States Olympic Committee" means the organization established by the "Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act" (36 U.S.C. 220501 et seq.).

#### (2) Amateur athletic competition

The term "amateur athletic competition" means a contest, game, meet, match, tournament, regatta, or other event in which amateur athletes compete (36 U.S.C. 220501(b)(2)).

#### (3) Amateur athlete

The term "amateur athlete" means an athlete who meets the eligibility standards established by the national governing body or paralympic sports organization for the sport in which the athlete competes (36 U.S.C. 22501(b)(1)).[1](#2001_1_target)

#### (b) In general

The United States Anti-Doping Agency shall—

(1) serve as the independent anti-doping organization for the amateur athletic competitions recognized by the United States Olympic Committee and be recognized worldwide as the independent national anti-doping organization for the United States;

(2) ensure that athletes participating in amateur athletic activities recognized by the United States Olympic Committee are prevented from using performance-enhancing drugs or prohibited performance-enhancing methods adopted by the Agency;

(3) implement anti-doping education, research, testing, and adjudication programs to prevent United States Amateur Athletes participating in any activity recognized by the United States Olympic Committee from using performance-enhancing drugs or prohibited performance-enhancing methods adopted by the Agency;

(4) serve as the United States representative responsible for coordination with other anti-doping organizations coordinating amateur athletic competitions recognized by the United States Olympic Committee to ensure the integrity of athletic competition, the health of the athletes, and the prevention of use by United States amateur athletes of performance-enhancing drugs or prohibited performance-enhancing methods adopted by the Agency.

(Pub. L. 109–469, title VII, §701, Dec. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 3533; Pub. L. 113–280, §2, Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3020.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is chapter 2205 of Title 36, Patriotic and National Observances, Ceremonies, and Organizations.

#### Amendments

**2014**—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 113–280, §2(1), struck out par. (4). Text read as follows: "The term 'gene doping' means the nontherapeutic use of cells, genes, genetic elements, or of the modulation of gene expression, having the capacity to enhance athletic performance."

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 113–280, §2(2)(A), inserted "and be recognized worldwide as the independent national anti-doping organization for the United States" after "Committee".

Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 113–280, §2(2)(B), substituted "or prohibited performance-enhancing methods adopted by the Agency" for ", or performance-enhancing genetic modifications accomplished through gene-doping".

Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 113–280, §2(2)(C), substituted "or prohibited performance-enhancing methods adopted by the Agency" for ", or performance-enhancing genetic modifications accomplished through gene-doping".

Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 113–280, §2(2)(D), substituted ", and the prevention of use by United States amateur athletes of performance-enhancing drugs or prohibited performance-enhancing methods adopted by the Agency." for "and the prevention of use of performance-enhancing drugs, or performance-enhancing genetic modifications accomplished through gene-doping by United States amateur athletes; and".

Subsec. (b)(5). Pub. L. 113–280, §2(2)(E), struck out par. (5) which read as follows: "permanently include 'gene doping' among any list of prohibited substances adopted by the Agency."

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

References to the United States Olympic Committee deemed to refer to the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee, see section 220502(c) of Title 36, Patriotic and National Observances, Ceremonies, and Organizations.

#### Short Title of 2014 Amendment

Pub. L. 113–280, §1, Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3020, provided that: "This Act \[amending this section and section 2003 of this title\] may be cited as the 'United States Anti-Doping Agency Reauthorization Act'."

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 109–469, title X, §1001, Dec. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 3537, provided that: "This title \[enacting subchapter II of this chapter\] may be cited as the 'National Methamphetamine Information Clearinghouse Act of 2006'."

[1 So in original. Probably should be "220501(b)(1))."](#2001_1)