### §2864. Master plans for major military installations

(a) Plans Required.—(1) At a time interval prescribed by the Secretary concerned (but not less frequently than once every 10 years), the commander of each major military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary shall ensure that an installation master plan is developed to address environmental planning, sustainable design and development, sustainable range planning, real property master planning, and transportation planning.

(2) To address the requirements under paragraph (1), each installation master plan shall include consideration of—

(A) planning for compact and infill development;

(B) horizontal and vertical mixed-use development;

(C) the full lifecycle costs of real property planning decisions;

(D) capacity planning through the establishment of growth boundaries around cantonment areas to focus development towards the core and preserve range and training space; and

(E) energy and climate resiliency efforts.

  

(b) Transportation Component.—(1) The transportation component of the master plan for a major military installation shall be developed and updated in consultation with the metropolitan planning organization designated for the metropolitan planning area in which the military installation is located.

(2) To address the requirements under subsection (a) and paragraph (1), each installation master plan shall include consideration of ways to diversify and connect transit systems.

(c) Savings Clause.—Nothing in this section shall supersede the requirements of section 2859(a) of this title.

(d) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "major military installation" has the meaning given to the term "large site" in the most recent version of the Department of Defense Base Structure Report issued before the time interval prescribed for development of installation master plans arises under subsection (a).

(2) The terms "metropolitan planning area" and "metropolitan planning organization" have the meanings given those terms in section 134(b) of title 23 and section 5303(b) of title 49.

(3) The term "energy and climate resiliency" means anticipation, preparation for, and adaptation to utility disruptions and changing environmental conditions and the ability to withstand, respond to, and recover rapidly from utility disruptions while ensuring the sustainment of mission-critical operations.

(Added Pub. L. 112–239, div. B, title XXVIII, §2802(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2147; amended Pub. L. 113–66, div. B, title XXVIII, §2811, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 1013; Pub. L. 115–232, div. B, title XXVIII, §2805(d), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2263.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2864, added Pub. L. 101–189, div. B, title XXVIII, §2807(a), Nov. 29, 1989, 103 Stat. 1648; amended Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title X, §1062(g), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 444, related to military construction contracts on Guam, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 109–364, div. B, title XXVIII, §2810(a), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2470.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (a)(2)(E). Pub. L. 115–232, §2805(d)(1), added subpar. (E).

Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 115–232, §2805(d)(2), added par. (3).

**2013**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 113–66, §2811(1), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 113–66, §2811(2), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 113–66, §2811(3), (4), added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

#### Incorporation of Changing Environmental Condition Projections in Military Construction Designs and Modifications

Pub. L. 115–232, div. B, title XXVIII, §2805(c), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2262, provided that: "Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Aug. 13, 2018\], the Secretary of Defense shall amend section 3–5.6.2.3 of United Facilities Criteria \[probably should be Unified Facilities Criteria\] (UFC) 2–100–01 and UFC 2–100–02 (or any similar successor regulations) to provide that in order to anticipate changing environmental conditions during the design life of existing or planned new facilities and infrastructure, projections from reliable and authorized sources such as the Census Bureau (for population projections), the National Academies of Sciences (for land use change projections and climate projections), the U.S. Geological Survey (for land use change projections), and the U.S. Global Change Research Office and National Climate Assessment (for climate projections) shall be considered and incorporated into military construction designs and modifications."