### §2859. Construction requirements related to antiterrorism and force protection or urban-training operations

(a) Antiterrorism and Force Protection Guidance and Criteria.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop common guidance and criteria to be used by each Secretary concerned—

(1) to assess the vulnerability of military installations located inside and outside of the United States to terrorist attack;

(2) to develop construction standards that, taking into consideration other security or force-protection measures available for the facility or military installation concerned, are designed to reduce the vulnerability of structures to terrorist attack and improve the security of the occupants of such structures;

(3) to prepare and carry out military construction projects, such as gate and fenceline construction, to improve the physical security of military installations; and

(4) to assist in prioritizing such projects within the military construction budget of each of the armed forces.

  

(b) Vulnerability Assessments.—The Secretary of Defense shall require vulnerability assessments of military installations to be conducted, at regular intervals, using the criteria developed under subsection (a).

(c) Certification Required for Military Construction Projects Designed to Provide Training in Urban Operations.—(1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary concerned may not carry out a military construction project to construct a facility designed to provide training in urban operations for members of the armed forces or personnel of the Department of Defense or other Federal agencies until—

(A) the Secretary of Defense approves a strategy for training and facility construction for operations in urban terrain; and

(B) the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness evaluates the project and certifies to the appropriate committees of Congress that the project—

(i) is consistent with the strategy; and

(ii) incorporates the appropriate capabilities for joint and interagency use in accordance with the strategy.

  

(2) This subsection shall not apply with respect to a military construction project carried out under the authority of section 2803, 2804, or 2808 of this title or section 2808 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (division B of Public Law 108–136; 117 Stat. 1723).

(Added Pub. L. 108–375, div. B, title XXVIII, §2804(a)(1), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2121; amended Pub. L. 109–364, div. B, title XXVIII, §2808(a), (b)(1), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2469; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, §1081(2), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1960; Pub. L. 113–66, div. B, title XXVIII, §2803(a), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 1006; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1051(a)(22), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1562.)

#### References in Text

Section 2808 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), is section 2808 of title XXVIII of div. B of Pub. L. 108–136, Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1723, which is not classified to the Code except for section 2808(e), which is set out as a note under section 2805 of this title.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2859, added Pub. L. 97–214, §2(a), July 12, 1982, 96 Stat. 167; amended Pub. L. 97–295, §1(36), Oct. 12, 1982, 96 Stat. 1296, provided for transmission of annual military construction authorization request, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, §1044(b)(1), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1612.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 115–91 redesignated subsec. (d) as (c) and struck out former subsec. (c) which required annual reports describing vulnerability assessments and military construction requirements.

**2013**—Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 113–66 substituted "develop construction standards that, taking into consideration other security or force-protection measures available for the facility or military installation concerned, are designed" for "develop construction standards designed".

Subsec. (d)(2), (3). Pub. L. 112–239 redesignated par. (3) as (2) and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: "The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall conduct the evaluation required by paragraph (1)(B) in consultation with the Commander of the United States Joint Forces Command."

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–364, §2808(b)(1), inserted "or urban-training operations" after "force protection" in section catchline.

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 109–364, §2808(a), added subsec. (d).

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

Pub. L. 109–364, div. B, title XXVIII, §2808(c), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2470, provided that: "Subsection (d) \[now subsec. (c)\] of section 2859 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to military construction projects described in such subsection (d) \[subsec. (c)\] for which funds are first provided for fiscal year 2007 or thereafter."

#### Special Requirement for 2006 Report

Pub. L. 108–375, div. B, title XXVIII, §2804(b), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2122, required the 2006 report under former subsec. (c) of this section to include a certification that since Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack vulnerability assessments had been undertaken for all major military installations.