### §20211. Convening of selection boards

(a) In General.—Whenever the needs of the service require, the Secretary of the Air Force shall convene selection boards to recommend for promotion to the next higher permanent grade officers of the Space Force in each permanent grade from first lieutenant through brigadier general.

(b) Exception for Officers in Grade of First Lieutenant.—Subsection (a) does not require the convening of a selection board in the case of Space Force officers in the permanent grade of first lieutenant when the Secretary of the Air Force recommends for promotion to the grade of captain under section 20238(a)(4)(A) [1](#20211_1_target) of this title all such officers whom the Secretary finds to be fully qualified for promotion.

(c) Selection Boards for Early Retirement or Discharge.—The Secretary of the Air Force may convene selection boards to recommend officers for early retirement under section 20404(a) of this title or for discharge under section 20404(b) of this title.

(d) Regulations.—The convening of selection boards under subsection (a) shall be under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Defense.

(Added Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, §1716(c), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 634.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 20238(a) of this title, referred to in subsec. (b), does not contain a par. (4). However, section 20239(c) of this title relates to promotion of first lieutenants on an all-fully-qualified officers list and does contain a par. (4) defining such a list and containing subpars. (A) and (B).

[1 See References in Text note below.](#20211_1)