### §47140. Increasing the energy efficiency of airport power sources

(a) In General.—The Secretary of Transportation shall establish a program under which the Secretary shall encourage the sponsor of each public-use airport to assess the airport's energy requirements, including heating and cooling, base load, back-up power, and power for on-road airport vehicles and ground support equipment, in order to identify opportunities to increase energy efficiency at the airport, and to reimburse the airport sponsor for the costs incurred in conducting the assessment.

(b) Grants.—

(1) In general.—The Secretary may make grants from amounts made available under section 48103 to assist airport sponsors that have completed the assessment described in subsection (a) to acquire or construct equipment, including hydrogen equipment and related infrastructure, that will increase energy efficiency at the airport.

(2) Application.—To be eligible for a grant under paragraph (1), the sponsor of a public-use airport shall submit an application, including a certification that no safety projects are being be deferred by requesting a grant under this section, to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

(Added Pub. L. 112–95, title V, §512(a), Feb. 14, 2012, 126 Stat. 109, §47140a; renumbered §47140 and amended Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, §§166(b)(1), 171, Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3226, 3227.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 47140, added Pub. L. 108–176, title I, §159(a)(1), Dec. 12, 2003, 117 Stat. 2509, related to airport ground support equipment emissions retrofit pilot program, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, §166(a), Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3226.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–254, §166(b)(1), renumbered section 47140a of this title as this section.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–254, §171(a), inserted ", and to reimburse the airport sponsor for the costs incurred in conducting the assessment" before period at end.

Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 115–254, §171(b), inserted ", including a certification that no safety projects are being be deferred by requesting a grant under this section," after "an application"