### §8933. Ocean Research Advisory Panel

(a) Establishment.—The Council shall establish an Ocean Research Advisory Panel consisting of not less than 10 and not more than 18 members appointed by the chairman, including the following:

(1) One member who will represent the National Academy of Sciences.

(2) One member who will represent the National Academy of Engineering.

(3) One member who will represent the Institute of Medicine.

(4) Members selected from among individuals who will represent the views of ocean industries, State governments, academia, and such other views as the chairman considers appropriate.

(5) Members selected from among individuals eminent in the fields of marine science or marine policy, or related fields.

  

(b) Responsibilities.—The Council shall assign the following responsibilities to the Advisory Panel:

(1) To advise the Council on policies and procedures to implement the National Oceanographic Partnership Program.

(2) To advise the Council on selection of partnership projects and allocation of funds for partnership projects for implementation under the program.

(3) To advise the Council on matters relating to national oceanographic data requirements.

(4) Any additional responsibilities that the Council considers appropriate.

  

(Added Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title II, §282(a)(1), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2473, §7903; amended Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title II, §241(b)(1), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1666; Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title X, §1084, Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 1004; renumbered §8932, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(14), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1837.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7903 of this title as this section.

**2015**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 114–92 struck out subsec. (c). Text read as follows: "The Secretary of the Navy annually shall make funds available to support the activities of the Advisory Panel."

**1997**—Pub. L. 105–85 amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

"(a) Establishment.—The Council shall establish an Ocean Research Advisory Panel consisting of not less than 10 and not more than 18 members appointed by the Council from among persons eminent in the fields of marine science or marine policy, or related fields, and who are representative, at a minimum, of the interests of government, academia, and industry.

"(b) Responsibilities.—The Council shall assign to the Advisory Panel responsibilities that the Council considers appropriate."

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1997 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 105–85 effective as of Sept. 23, 1996, as if included in section 282 of Pub. L. 104–201, see section 241(d) of Pub. L. 105–85, set out as a note under section 7902 of this title.

#### Termination of Advisory Panels

Advisory panels established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a panel established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such panel is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a panel established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Initial Appointments of Panel Members

Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title II, §282(b), formerly §282(c), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2473, as renumbered and amended by Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title II, §241(b)(2), (c)(2), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1666, provided that: "The National Ocean Research Leadership Council established by section 7902 \[now 8932\] of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(1), shall make the appointments required by section 7903 \[now 8933\] of such title not later than January 1, 1998."