### §6154. Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the Minority

#### (a) In general

Upon the written request of the Secretary of the Conference of the Majority or the Secretary of the Conference of the Minority, the Secretary of the Senate shall transfer from the appropriations account appropriated under the subheading "offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the conference of the minority" under the heading "Salaries, Officers and Employees" such amount as the Secretary of the Conference of the Majority or the Secretary of the Conference of the Minority shall specify to the appropriations account under the heading "miscellaneous items" within the contingent fund of the Senate.

#### (b) Authority to incur expenses

The Secretary of the Conference of the Majority or the Secretary of the Conference of the Minority may incur such expenses as may be necessary or appropriate. Expenses incurred by the Secretary of the Conference of the Majority or the Secretary of the Conference of the Minority shall be paid from the amount transferred under subsection (a) by the Secretary of the Conference of the Majority or the Secretary of the Conference of the Minority and upon vouchers approved by the Secretary of the Conference of the Majority or the Secretary of the Conference of the Minority, as applicable.

#### (c) Authority to advance sums

The Secretary of the Senate may advance such sums as may be necessary to defray expenses incurred in carrying out subsections (a) and (b).

#### (d) Effective date

This section shall apply to fiscal year 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter.

(Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, §3, Dec. 26, 2007, 121 Stat. 2221.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 61g–6b of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2008, which is div. H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Senate Democratic Leadership Offices Funding and Authorities

Pub. L. 116–260, div. I, title I, §104, Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 1631, provided that:

"(a) In this section—

"(1) the term 'applicable conference' means the majority or minority conference of the Senate, as applicable, that represents the Democratic party;

"(2) the term 'covered Congress' means the 117th Congress; and

"(3) the term 'covered period' means the period beginning on the date on which the Secretary of the applicable conference submits the letter described in subsection (b) and ending on January 3, 2023.

"(b) The Secretary of the applicable conference may, by submission of a letter to the Disbursing Office of the Senate on or after January 3, 2021, assign to the Assistant Leader of the applicable conference the following duties and authorities for the duration of the covered Congress:

"(1) The authority over any amounts made available for the Office of the Secretary of the applicable conference.

"(2) The duties and authorities of the Secretary of the applicable conference under section 3 of title I of division H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (2 U.S.C. 6154), section 102 of chapter VIII of title I of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1979 (2 U.S.C. 6156), or any other provision of law.

"(c) For purposes of any individual employed by the Office of the Assistant Leader of the applicable conference during the covered period—

"(1) any reference to the Office of the Secretary of the applicable conference in the last sentence of section 506(e) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1973 (2 U.S.C. 6314(e)) shall be deemed to refer to the Office of the Assistant Leader of the applicable conference;

"(2) any reference to the Office of the Secretary of the applicable conference under subsection (b) of the first section of S. Res. 458 (98th Congress) shall be deemed to refer to the Office of the Assistant Leader of the applicable conference; and

"(3) any reference to the Secretary of the applicable conference under section 207(e)(9)(M) of title 18, United States Code, shall be deemed to refer to the Assistant Leader of the applicable conference.

"(d) For purposes of any individual employed by the Office of the Assistant Leader of the applicable conference during the covered period and with respect to any practice that occurs during the covered period, any reference to the Office of the Secretary of the applicable conference under section 220(e)(2)(C) of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1351(e)(2)(C)) shall be deemed to be a reference to the Office of the Assistant Leader of the applicable conference.

"(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to have any effect on the continuation of any procedure or action initiated under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) or section 207 of title 18, United States Code."