### §1546. Advisory committee for promotion of tourist travel; expenses

The Secretary of Commerce is authorized to create an advisory committee to consist of a representative from each of the Departments of State, Agriculture, and Commerce, the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the Department of Transportation, as may be designated by such Departments or agencies, respectively, and such additional members, representatives of the various sections of the Nation, including transportation and accommodations agencies, not to exceed six members, to be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce to serve at his pleasure. Meetings of the committee shall be held at the request of the Secretary for the purpose of making recommendations concerning the promotion of tourist travel under the provisions of sections 1544 to 1548 of this title. The members of the committee shall receive no compensation for their services as members, but shall be entitled to reimbursement for such necessary travel and other expenses in connection with their attendance at committee meetings as may be authorized or approved by the Secretary.

(July 19, 1940, ch. 642, §3, 54 Stat. 773; Pub. L. 93–193, §2, Dec. 19, 1973, 87 Stat. 765; Pub. L. 97–31, §12(10), Aug. 6, 1981, 95 Stat. 154; Pub. L. 98–443, §9(o), Oct. 4, 1984, 98 Stat. 1708.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 18b of Title 16, Conservation.

#### Amendments

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–443 struck out "the Civil Aeronautics Authority," after "the Interstate Commerce Commission,".

**1981**—Pub. L. 97–31 substituted "Department of Transportation" for "United States Maritime Commission".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 98–443 effective Jan. 1, 1985, see section 9(v) of Pub. L. 98–443, set out as a note under section 5314 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Transfer of Functions

Secretary of Commerce substituted for Secretary of the Interior in view of transfer of functions to Secretary of Commerce from Secretary of the Interior by section 2 of Pub. L. 93–193. See Transfer of Functions note set out under section 1544 of this title.

#### Abolition of Interstate Commerce Commission and Transfer of Functions

Interstate Commerce Commission abolished and functions of Commission transferred, except as otherwise provided in Pub. L. 104–88, to Surface Transportation Board effective Jan. 1, 1996, by section 1302 of Title 49, Transportation, and section 101 of Pub. L. 104–88, set out as a note under section 1301 of Title 49. References to Interstate Commerce Commission deemed to refer to Surface Transportation Board, a member or employee of the Board, or Secretary of Transportation, as appropriate, see section 205 of Pub. L. 104–88, set out as a note under section 1301 of Title 49.