### §300u–11. Prevention and Public Health Fund

#### (a) Purpose

It is the purpose of this section to establish a Prevention and Public Health Fund (referred to in this section as the “Fund”), to be administered through the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Secretary, to provide for expanded and sustained national investment in prevention and public health programs to improve health and help restrain the rate of growth in private and public sector health care costs.

#### (b) Funding

There are hereby authorized to be appropriated, and appropriated, to the Fund, out of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated—

(1) for fiscal year 2010, $500,000,000;

(2) for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2017, $1,000,000,000;

(3) for each of fiscal years 2018 and 2019, $1,250,000,000;

(4) for each of fiscal years 2020 and 2021, $1,500,000,000; and

(5) for fiscal year 2022, and each fiscal year thereafter, $2,000,000,000.

#### (c) Use of Fund

The Secretary shall transfer amounts in the Fund to accounts within the Department of Health and Human Services to increase funding, over the fiscal year 2008 level, for programs authorized by the Public Health Service Act \[42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.\], for prevention, wellness, and public health activities including prevention research, health screenings, and initiatives, such as the Community Transformation grant program, the Education and Outreach Campaign Regarding Preventive Benefits, and immunization programs.

#### (d) Transfer authority

The Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives may provide for the transfer of funds in the Fund to eligible activities under this section, subject to subsection (c).

(Pub. L. 111–148, title IV, §4002, title X, §10401(b), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 541, 974; Pub. L. 112–96, title III, §3205, Feb. 22, 2012, 126 Stat. 194.)

#### References in Text

The Public Health Service Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, 58 Stat. 682, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 201 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2012**—Subsec. (b)(2) to (6). Pub. L. 112–96 added pars. (2) to (5) and struck out former pars. (2) to (6) which appropriated amounts for fiscal years 2011 through 2015 and each fiscal year thereafter.

**2010**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 111–148, §10401(b), substituted “research, health screenings, and initiatives” for “research and health screenings” and “Regarding Preventive” for “for Preventive”.

#### Website

Pub. L. 112–74, div. F, title II, §220(a), Dec. 23, 2011, 125 Stat. 1085, provided that: “The Secretary \[of Health and Human Services\] shall establish a publicly accessible website to provide information regarding the uses of funds made available under section 4002 of Public Law 111–148 \[this section\].”