### §3374. Undefinitized contractual actions: allowable profit

(a) Allowed Profit to Reflect Certain Reduced Cost Risks of Contractor.—The head of an agency shall ensure that the profit allowed on an undefinitized contractual action for which the final price is negotiated after a substantial portion of the performance required is completed reflects—

(1) the possible reduced cost risk of the contractor with respect to costs incurred during performance of the contract before the final price is negotiated; and

(2) the reduced cost risk of the contractor with respect to costs incurred during performance of the remaining portion of the contract.

  

(b) Date as of Which Contractor Cost Risk to Be Determined.—If a contractor submits a qualifying proposal to definitize an undefinitized contractual action and the contracting officer for such action definitizes the contract after the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date on which the contractor submitted the qualifying proposal, the head of the agency concerned shall ensure that the profit allowed on the contract accurately reflects the cost risk of the contractor as such risk existed on the date the contractor submitted the qualifying proposal.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1819(a), (e), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4189, 4190.)

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.