### §4126. Administrative expenses

Any administrative expenses which may be sustained by the Federal Government in carrying out the flood insurance and floodplain management programs authorized under this chapter may be paid with amounts from the National Flood Insurance Fund (as provided under section 4017(a)(4) of this title), subject to approval in appropriations Acts.

(Pub. L. 90–448, title XIII, §1375, Aug. 1, 1968, 82 Stat. 589; Pub. L. 101–508, title II, §2302(e)(4), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1388–25.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original a reference to "this title" meaning title XIII of Pub. L. 90–448, Aug. 1, 1968, 82 Stat. 572, known as the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4001 of this title and Tables.

#### Amendments

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–508 substituted "and floodplain management programs authorized under this chapter may be paid with amounts from the National Flood Insurance Fund (as provided under section 4017(a)(4) of this title), subject to approval in appropriations Acts" for "program authorized under this chapter may be paid out of appropriated funds".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 120 days following Aug. 1, 1968, or such later date prescribed by the Secretary but in no event more than 180 days following Aug. 1, 1968, see section 1377 of Pub. L. 90–448, set out as a note under section 4001 of this title.