### §3135. Comparable budgeting for common procurement weapon systems

(a) Matters To Be Included in Annual Defense Budgets.—In preparing the defense budget for any fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall—

(1) specifically identify each common procurement weapon system included in the budget;

(2) take all feasible steps to minimize variations in procurement unit costs for any such system as shown in the budget requests of the different armed forces requesting procurement funds for the system; and

(3) identify and justify in the budget all such variations in procurement unit costs for common procurement weapon systems.

  

(b) Comptroller.—The Secretary shall carry out this section through the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).

(c) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "defense budget" means the budget of the Department of Defense included in the President's budget submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31 for a fiscal year.

(2) The term "common procurement weapon system" means a weapon system for which two or more of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force request procurement funds in a defense budget.

(Added Pub. L. 100–370, §1(d)(3)(A), July 19, 1988, 102 Stat. 843, §2217; amended Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, §1503(a)(20), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 512; renumbered §3135 and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §924(b)(1)(N), title XVIII, §1809(f)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3820, 4161.)

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1809(f)(1), renumbered section 2217 of this title as this section.

Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 116–283, §924(b)(1)(N), substituted "Marine Corps, and Space Force" for "and Marine Corps".

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by section 1809(f)(1) of Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.