### §50307. Maritime environmental and technical assistance program

(a) In General.—The Secretary of Transportation, acting through the Maritime Administrator, shall engage in the study, research, development, assessment, and deployment of emerging marine technologies and practices related to the marine transportation system through the use of public vessels under the control of the Maritime Administration or private vessels under United States registry, and through partnerships and cooperative efforts with academic, public, private, and nongovernmental entities and facilities.

(b) Components.—Under this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall identify, study, evaluate, test, demonstrate, or improve emerging marine technologies and practices to improve—

(1) environmental performance to meet United States Federal and international standards and guidelines, including—

(A) reducing air emissions, water emissions, or other ship discharges;

(B) increasing fuel economy or the use of alternative fuels and alternative energy (including the use of shore power); or

(C) controlling aquatic invasive species; or

(D) reducing propeller cavitation; and

  

(2) the efficiency and safety of domestic maritime industries.

  

(c) Coordination.—Coordination under subsection (b)(2) may include—

(1) activities that are associated with the development or approval of validation and testing regimes; and

(2) certification or validation of emerging technologies or practices that demonstrate significant environmental or other benefits to domestic maritime industries.

  

(d) Assistance.—The Secretary of Transportation may accept gifts, or enter into cooperative agreements, contracts, or other agreements with academic, public, private, and nongovernmental entities and facilities to carry out the activities authorized under subsection (a).

(e) Limitations on the Use of Funds.—Not more than three percent of the funds appropriated to carry out this section may be used for administrative purposes.

(Added Pub. L. 112–213, title IV, §403(a), Dec. 20, 2012, 126 Stat. 1569; amended Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXV, §3503, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1969.)

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–92, §3503(1), substituted "The Secretary of Transportation, acting through the Maritime Administrator, shall engage in the study" for "The Secretary of Transportation may engage in the environmental study".

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–92, §3503(2), in introductory provisions of par. (1), substituted "shall identify, study, evaluate, test, demonstrate, or improve emerging marine technologies and practices to improve—" for "may—" and "environmental performance to meet United States Federal and international standards and guidelines, including—" for "(1) identify, study, evaluate, test, demonstrate, or improve emerging marine technologies and practices that are likely to achieve environmental improvements by—", in subpar. (C) of par. (1), substituted "species; or" for "species; and", added subpar. (D) of par. (1), and, in par. (2), substituted "the efficiency and safety of domestic maritime industries." for "coordinate with the Environmental Protection Agency, the Coast Guard, and other Federal, State, local, or tribal agencies, as appropriate."

Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 116–92, §3503(3), substituted "or other benefits to domestic maritime industries" for "benefits".

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 116–92, §3503(4), added subsec. (e).