### §6208. Payment of cabin user fees

#### (a) Due date for payment of fees

A cabin user fee shall be prepaid annually by the cabin owner.

#### (b) Payment of equal or lesser fee

If, in accordance with section 6206 of this title, the Secretary determines that the amount of a new base cabin user fee is equal to or less than the amount of the current base cabin user fee, the Secretary shall require payment of the new base cabin user fee by the cabin owner in accordance with subsection (a) of this section.

#### (c) Payment of greater fee

If, in accordance with section 6206 of this title, the Secretary determines that the amount of a new base cabin user fee is greater than the amount of the current base cabin user fee, the Secretary shall—

(1) require full payment of the new base cabin user fee in the first year following completion of the fee determination procedure if the increase in the amount of the new base cabin user fee is not more than 100 percent of the current base cabin user fee; or

(2) phase in the increase over the current base cabin user fee in approximately equal increments over 3 years if the increase in the amount of the new base cabin user fee is more than 100 percent of the current base cabin user fee.

(Pub. L. 106–291, title VI, §609, Oct. 11, 2000, 114 Stat. 1020.)

#### Repeal of Section

Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, §3024(k), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3766, provided that, effective on the date of the assessment of annual permit fees in accordance with section 6214(f) of this title (as certified to Congress by the Secretary of Agriculture), this section is repealed.