### §1521. Definitions

In this subchapter:

#### (1) Agency

The term "agency" has the meaning given the term in section 3502 of title 44.

#### (2) Agency information system

The term "agency information system" has the meaning given the term in section 660 of this title.

#### (3) Appropriate congressional committees

The term "appropriate congressional committees" means—

(A) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.

#### (4) Cybersecurity risk; information system

The terms "cybersecurity risk" and "information system" have the meanings given those terms in section 650 of this title.

#### (5) Director

The term "Director" means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

#### (6) Intelligence community

The term "intelligence community" has the meaning given the term in section 3003(4) of title 50.

#### (7) National security system

The term "national security system" has the meaning given the term in section 11103 of title 40.

#### (8) Secretary

The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of Homeland Security.

(Pub. L. 114–113, div. N, title II, §222, Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 2963; Pub. L. 115–278, §2(h)(1)(D), Nov. 16, 2018, 132 Stat. 4182; Pub. L. 117–263, div. G, title LXXI, §7143(d)(1)(A), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3663.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this subtitle", meaning subtitle B (§§221–229) of title II of div. N of Pub. L. 114–113, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of subtitle B to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

**2022**—Par. (4). Pub. L. 117–263 substituted "section 650 of this title" for "section 659 of this title".

**2018**—Par. (2). Pub. L. 115–278, §2(h)(1)(D)(i), substituted "section 660 of this title" for "section 149 of this title, as added by section 223(a)(4) of this division".

Par. (4). Pub. L. 115–278, §2(h)(1)(D)(ii), substituted "section 659 of this title" for "section 148 of this title, as so redesignated by section 223(a)(3) of this division".