### §579c–1. Backlog prevention

#### (a) Project deauthorization

#### (1) In general

A water resources development project, or separable element of such a project, authorized for construction by this Act shall not be authorized after the last day of the 10-year period beginning on December 16, 2016, unless—

(A) funds have been obligated for construction of, or a post-authorization study for, such project or separable element during that period; or

(B) the authorization contained in this Act has been modified by a subsequent Act of Congress.

#### (2) Identification of projects

Not later than 60 days after the expiration of the 10-year period referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that identifies the projects deauthorized under paragraph (1).

#### (b) Report to Congress

Not later than 60 days after the expiration of the 12-year period beginning on December 16, 2016, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and make available to the public, a report that contains—

(1) a list of any water resources development projects authorized by this Act for which construction has not been completed during that period;

(2) a description of the reasons the projects were not completed;

(3) a schedule for the completion of the projects based on expected levels of appropriations; and

(4) a 5-year and 10-year projection of construction backlog and any recommendations to Congress regarding how to mitigate current problems and the backlog.

(Pub. L. 114–322, title I, §1302, Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1690.)

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1) and (b)(1), means Pub. L. 114–322, December 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1628, known as the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act or the WIIN Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### "Secretary" Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 1002 of Pub. L. 114–322, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.