### §579c–2. Backlog prevention: projects from Public Law 115–270

#### (a) Project deauthorization

#### (1) In general

A water resources development project authorized for construction by this Act shall not be authorized after the last day of the 10-year period beginning on October 23, 2018 unless—

(A) funds have been obligated for construction of, or a post-authorization study for, such project or such separable element during such period; or

(B) a subsequent Act of Congress modifies the authorization contained in this Act.

#### (2) Identification of projects

Not later than 60 days after the expiration of the 10-year period described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that identifies the projects deauthorized under paragraph (1).

#### (b) Report to Congress

Not later than 60 days after the expiration of the 12-year period beginning on October 23, 2018, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and make available to the public, a report that contains—

(1) a list of any water resources development projects authorized by this Act for which construction has not been completed;

(2) a description of the reasons each project was not completed;

(3) a schedule for the completion of the projects based on expected levels of appropriations;

(4) a 5-year and 10-year projection of construction backlog; and

(5) any recommendations to Congress regarding how to mitigate the backlog.

(Pub. L. 115–270, title I, §1302, Oct. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 3817.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1) and (b)(1), is Pub. L. 115–270, Oct. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 3765, known as the America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2018 Amendment note set out under section 2201 of this title and Tables.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### "Secretary" Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 102 of Pub. L. 115–270, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.