### §57c–1. Staff exchanges

#### (a) In general

The Commission may—

(1) retain or employ officers or employees of foreign government agencies on a temporary basis as employees of the Commission pursuant to section 42 of this title or section 3101 or section 3109 of title 5; and

(2) detail officers or employees of the Commission to work on a temporary basis for appropriate foreign government agencies.

#### (b) Reciprocity and reimbursement

The staff arrangements described in subsection (a) need not be reciprocal. The Commission may accept payment or reimbursement, in cash or in kind, from a foreign government agency to which this section is applicable, or payment or reimbursement made on behalf of such agency, for expenses incurred by the Commission, its members, and employees in carrying out such arrangements.

#### (c) Standards of conduct

A person appointed under subsection (a)(1) shall be subject to the provisions of law relating to ethics, conflicts of interest, corruption, and any other criminal or civil statute or regulation governing the standards of conduct for Federal employees that are applicable to the type of appointment.

(Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311, §25A, as added Pub. L. 109–455, §9, Dec. 22, 2006, 120 Stat. 3381.)

#### Repeal of Section

For repeal of section by section 13 of Pub. L. 109–455, see Effective Date of Repeal note below.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Section repealed effective Sept. 30, 2027, see section 13 of Pub. L. 109–455, as amended, set out as a Termination Date of 2006 Amendment note under section 44 of this title.