### §5607. Consultative committee

#### (a) Establishment

The Secretary of State and the Secretary, shall jointly establish a consultative committee to advise the Secretaries on issues related to the Convention.

#### (b) Membership

(1) The membership of the Committee shall include representatives from the New England and Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Councils, the States represented on those Councils, the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission, the fishing industry, the seafood processing industry, and others knowledgeable and experienced in the conservation and management of fisheries in the Northwest Atlantic Ocean.

(2) Terms and Reappointment.—Each member of the consultative committee shall serve for a term of 2 years and shall be eligible for reappointment.

#### (c) Duties of committee

Members of the consultative committee may attend—

(1) all public meetings of the Commission;

(2) any other meetings to which they are invited by the Commission; and

(3) all nonexecutive meetings of the United States Commissioners.

#### (d) Relationship to other law

The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the consultative committee established under this section.

(Pub. L. 104–43, title II, §208, Nov. 3, 1995, 109 Stat. 380; Pub. L. 114–327, title V, §507, Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1996.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 114–327, §507(1), substituted "2" for "two".

Subsec. (c)(1), (2). Pub. L. 114–327, §507(2), struck out "General Council or the Fisheries" before "Commission;".