### §14509. High-speed broadband deployment initiative

(a) In General.—The Appalachian Regional Commission may provide technical assistance, make grants, enter into contracts, or otherwise provide amounts to individuals or entities in the Appalachian region for projects and activities—

(1) to increase affordable access to broadband networks throughout the Appalachian region;

(2) to conduct research, analysis, and training to increase broadband adoption efforts in the Appalachian region;

(3) to provide technology assets, including computers, smartboards, and video projectors to educational systems throughout the Appalachian region;

(4) to increase distance learning opportunities throughout the Appalachian region;

(5) to increase the use of telehealth technologies in the Appalachian region; and

(6) to promote e-commerce applications in the Appalachian region.

  

(b) Limitation on Available Amounts.—Of the cost of any activity eligible for a grant under this section—

(1) not more than 50 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section; and

(2) notwithstanding paragraph (1)—

(A) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, not more than 80 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section; and

(B) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk designation is in effect under section 14526, not more than 70 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section.

  

(c) Sources of Assistance.—Subject to subsection (b), a grant provided under this section may be provided from amounts made available to carry out this section in combination with amounts made available—

(1) under any other Federal program; or

(2) from any other source.

  

(d) Federal Share.—Notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the Federal share under any other Federal program, amounts made available to carry out this section may be used to increase that Federal share, as the Appalachian Regional Commission determines to be appropriate.

(Added Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title I, §1436(a)(1), Dec. 4, 2015, 129 Stat. 1430.)

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title I, §1436(d), Dec. 4, 2015, 129 Stat. 1432, provided that: "This section \[enacting this section and amending sections 14703 and 14704 of this title\] and the amendments made by this section take effect on October 1, 2015."