### §805. Local assistance and Tribal consistency fund

#### (a) Appropriation

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2021, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2023, with amounts to be obligated for each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023 in accordance with subsection (b), for making payments under this section to eligible revenue sharing counties and eligible Tribal governments.

#### (b) Authority to make payments

#### (1) Payments to eligible revenue sharing counties

For each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023, the Secretary shall reserve $750,000,000 of the total amount appropriated under subsection (a) to allocate and pay to each eligible revenue sharing county in amounts that are determined by the Secretary taking into account economic conditions of each eligible revenue sharing county, using measurements of poverty rates, household income, land values, and unemployment rates as well as other economic indicators, over the 20-year period ending with September 30, 2021.

#### (2) Payments to eligible Tribal governments

For each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023, the Secretary shall reserve $250,000,000 of the total amount appropriated under subsection (a) to allocate and pay to eligible Tribal governments in amounts that are determined by the Secretary taking into account economic conditions of each eligible Tribe.

#### (c) Use of payments

An eligible revenue sharing county or an eligible Tribal government may use funds provided under a payment made under this section for any governmental purpose other than a lobbying activity.

#### (d) Reporting requirement

Any eligible revenue sharing county receiving a payment under this section shall provide to the Secretary periodic reports providing a detailed accounting of the uses of fund by such eligible revenue sharing county and such other information as the Secretary may require for the administration of this section.

#### (e) Recoupment

Any eligible revenue sharing county that has failed to submit a report required under subsection (d) or failed to comply with subsection (c), shall be required to repay to the Secretary an amount equal to—

(1) in the case of a failure to comply with subsection (c), the amount of funds used in violation of such subsection; and

(2) in the case of a failure to submit a report required under subsection (d), such amount as the Secretary determines appropriate, but not to exceed 5 percent of the amount paid to the eligible revenue sharing county under this section for all fiscal years.

#### (f) Definitions

In this section:

#### (1) Eligible revenue sharing county

The term "eligible revenue sharing county" means—

(A) a county, parish, or borough—

(i) that is independent of any other unit of local government; and

(ii) that, as determined by the Secretary, is the principal provider of government services for the area within its jurisdiction; and

(iii) for which, as determined by the Secretary, there is a negative revenue impact due to implementation of a Federal program or changes to such program; and

  

(B) the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the United States Virgin Islands.

#### (2) Eligible Tribal government

The term "eligible Tribal government" means the recognized governing body of an eligible Tribe.

#### (3) Eligible Tribe

The term "eligible Tribe" means any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or component reservation, individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list published most recently as of March 11, 2021 pursuant to section 5131 of title 25.

#### (4) Secretary

The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Treasury.

(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title VI, §605, as added Pub. L. 117–2, title IX, §9901(a), Mar. 11, 2021, 135 Stat. 234.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 805, act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title VI, §605, as added Oct. 30, 1972, Pub. L. 92–603, title III, §302, 86 Stat. 1484, which defined "services to the aged, blind or disabled", was repealed by Pub. L. 93–647, §§3(b), 7(b), Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2349, 2351.