### §2152i. Small Grants Program

#### (a) In general

A Small Grants Program (SGP) shall be established within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to provide small grants, cooperative agreements, and other assistance mechanisms and agreements of not more than $2,000,000 for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of chapters 1 and 10 of part I \[22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq., 2293 et seq.\] and chapter 4 of part II \[22 U.S.C. 2346 et seq.\] of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: *Provided*, That the SGP established pursuant to this section shall replace the function served previously by the Development Grants Program established under section 674 of division J, of Public Law 110–161, which is hereby abolished.

#### (b) Eligibility

Awards from the SGP shall only be made to eligible entities as described in the joint explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

#### (c) Proposals

Awards made pursuant to the authority of this section shall be provided through—

(1) unsolicited applications received and evaluated pursuant to USAID policy regarding such proposals;

(2) an open and competitive process; or

(3) as otherwise allowable under Federal Acquisition Regulations and USAID procurement policies.

#### (d) Funding

(1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 \[22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq., 2346 et seq.\], not less than $45,000,000 shall be made available for the SGP within USAID's Local Sustainability Office of the Bureau for Economic Growth, Education and Environment to carry out this subsection.

(2) Other than to meet the requirements of this section, funds made available to carry out this section may not be allocated in the report required by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 \[22 U.S.C. 2413(a)\] to meet any other specifically designated funding levels contained in this Act: *Provided*, That such funds may be attributed to any such specifically designated funding level after the award of funds under this section, if applicable.

(3) Funds made available under this section shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 2019.

#### (e) Management

(1) Not later than 120 days after December 16, 2014, the USAID Administrator shall issue guidance to implement this section: *Provided*, That such guidance shall include the requirements contained in the joint explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

(2) Upon selection of a mission pursuant to the procedures required by paragraph (1), such selected mission may be allocated the full estimated cost of the multi-year program: *Provided*, That such allocations shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

(3) In addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes, up to 20 percent of the funds made available to carry out this section may be used by USAID for administrative expenses, and other necessary support associated with managing and strengthening relationships with entities under the SGP.

#### (f) Report

Not later than 120 days after December 16, 2014, and after consultation with the appropriate congressional committees, the Administrator shall submit a report to such committees describing the guidance to implement the SGP.

(Pub. L. 113–235, div. J, title VII, §7080, Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2682; Pub. L. 114–113, div. K, title VII, §7034(q)(3), Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 2768.)

#### References in Text

The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d)(1), is Pub. L. 87–195, Sept. 4, 1961, 75 Stat. 424. Chapters 1 and 10 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Act are classified generally to parts I (§2151 et seq.) and X (§2293 et seq.) of subchapter I and part IV (§2346 et seq.) of subchapter II, respectively, of chapter 32 of this title. For provisions deeming references to part I of subchapter I to include a reference to section 2293 of this title, see section 2293(d)(1) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2151 of this title and Tables.

Section 674 of division J, of Public Law 110–161, referred to in subsec. (a), is not classified to the Code.

Section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act), referred to in subsecs. (b) and (e)(1), is section 4 of Pub. L. 113–235, Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2132, which is not classified to the Code.

This Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), (2), is div. J of Pub. L. 113–235, Dec. 16, 1214, 128 Stat. 2573, known as the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015. For complete classification of div. J to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015, and also as part of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015, and not as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2015**—Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 114–113, §7034(q)(3)(A), substituted "Awards" for "Grants".

Subsec. (c)(3). Pub. L. 114–113, §7034(q)(3)(B)–(D), added par. (3).

Subsec. (e)(3). Pub. L. 114–113, §7034(q)(3)(E), substituted "20" for "12" and "administrative expenses, and other necessary support associated with managing and strengthening" for "administrative and oversight expenses associated with managing".

#### Definitions

Pub. L. 114–113, div. K, title VII, §7034(q)(4), Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 2768, provided that: "For the purposes of section 7080 of Public Law 113–235 \[22 U.S.C. 2152i\], 'eligible entities' shall be defined as small local, international, and United States-based nongovernmental organizations, educational institutions, and other small entities that have received less than a total of $5,000,000 in USAID funding over the previous five years: *Provided*, That departments or centers of such educational institutions may be considered individually in determining such eligibility."

Pub. L. 113–235, div. J, title VII, §7034(t)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2627, provided that: "Unless otherwise defined in this Act \[div. J of Pub. L. 113–235, 128 Stat. 2573, see Tables for classification\], for purposes of this Act the term 'appropriate congressional committees' shall mean the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives."