### §14043. Purpose

The purpose of this part is to enable the Attorney General, though [1](#14043_1_target) the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women, to award grants to improve court responses to adult and youth domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking to be used for—

(1) improved internal civil and criminal court functions, responses, practices, and procedures;

(2) education for court-based and court-related personnel on issues relating to victims’ needs, including safety, security, privacy, confidentiality, and economic independence, as well as information about perpetrator behavior and best practices for holding perpetrators accountable;

(3) collaboration and training with Federal, State, tribal, territorial, and local public agencies and officials and nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations to improve implementation and enforcement of relevant Federal, State, tribal, territorial, and local law;

(4) enabling courts or court-based or court-related programs to develop new or enhance current—

(A) court infrastructure (such as specialized courts, dockets, intake centers, or interpreter services);

(B) community-based initiatives within the court system (such as court watch programs, victim assistants, or community-based supplementary services);

(C) offender management, monitoring, and accountability programs;

(D) safe and confidential information-storage and -sharing databases within and between court systems;

(E) education and outreach programs to improve community access, including enhanced access for underserved populations; and

(F) other projects likely to improve court responses to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; and

  

(5) providing technical assistance to Federal, State, tribal, territorial, or local courts wishing to improve their practices and procedures or to develop new programs.

(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, §41002, as added Pub. L. 109–162, title I, §105(a), Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 2979.)

#### Repeal of Section

For effective date of repeal by Pub. L. 113–4, see Effective Date of Repeal note below.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as an Effective Date of 2013 Amendment note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### Short Title

For short title of this part as the “Violence Against Women Act Court Training and Improvements Act of 2005”, see section 41001 of Pub. L. 103–322, set out as a note under section 13701 of this title.

[1 So in original. Probably should be “through”.](#14043_1)