### §14043a–1. National education curricula

#### (a) In general

The Attorney General, through the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women, shall fund efforts to develop a national education curriculum for use by State and national judicial educators to ensure that all courts and court personnel have access to information about relevant Federal, State, territorial, or local law, promising practices, procedures, and policies regarding court responses to adult and youth domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.

#### (b) Eligible entities

Any curricula developed under this section—

(1) shall be developed by an entity or entities having demonstrated expertise in developing judicial education curricula on issues relating to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; or

(2) if the primary grantee does not have demonstrated expertise with such issues, shall be developed by the primary grantee in partnership with an organization having such expertise.

(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, §41004, as added Pub. L. 109–162, title I, §105(a), Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 2980.)

#### Repeal of Section

For effective date of repeal by Pub. L. 113–4, see Effective Date of Repeal note below.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as an Effective Date of 2013 Amendment note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.