### §14043a–3. Authorization of appropriations

#### (a) In general

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 to 2011.

#### (b) Availability

Funds appropriated under this section shall remain available until expended and may only be used for the specific programs and activities described in this part.

#### (c) Set aside

#### (1) In general

Not less than 10 percent of the total amount available under this section for each fiscal year shall be available for grants under the program authorized by section 3796gg–10 of this title.

#### (2) Applicability of part [1](#14043a-3_1_target)

The requirements of this section shall not apply to funds allocated for the program described in paragraph (1).

(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, §41006, as added Pub. L. 109–162, title I, §105(a), Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 2981; amended Pub. L. 109–271, §7(c)(2), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 765.)

#### Repeal of Section

For effective date of repeal by Pub. L. 113–4, see Effective Date of Repeal note below.

#### Amendments

**2006**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 109–271 added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Of the amounts made available under this subsection in each fiscal year, not less than 10 percent shall be used for grants for tribal courts, tribal court-related programs, and tribal nonprofits.”

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as an Effective Date of 2013 Amendment note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

[1 So in original. Probably should be “section”.](#14043a-3_1)