### §14043a. Grant requirements

Grants awarded under this part shall be subject to the following conditions:

#### (1) Eligible grantees

Eligible grantees may include—

(A) Federal, State, tribal, territorial, or local courts or court-based programs; and

(B) national, State, tribal, territorial, or local private, nonprofit organizations with demonstrated expertise in developing and providing judicial education about domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

#### (2) Conditions of eligibility

To be eligible for a grant under this section, applicants shall certify in writing that—

(A) any courts or court-based personnel working directly with or making decisions about adult or youth parties experiencing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking have completed or will complete education about domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(B) any education program developed under section 14043 of this title has been or will be developed with significant input from and in collaboration with a national, tribal, State, territorial, or local victim services provider or coalition; and

(C) the grantee's internal organizational policies, procedures, or rules do not require mediation or counseling between offenders and victims physically together in cases where domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking is an issue.

(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, §41003, as added Pub. L. 109–162, title I, §105(a), Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 2980.)

#### Repeal of Section

For effective date of repeal by Pub. L. 113–4, see Effective Date of Repeal note below.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as an Effective Date of 2013 Amendment note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.