### §4619. Effect on other Acts

#### (a) In general

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to modify, repeal, supersede, or otherwise affect the provisions of any other laws authorizing control over exports of any commodity.

#### (b) Coordination of controls

The authority granted to the President under this chapter shall be exercised in such manner as to achieve effective coordination with the authority exercised under section 2778 of title 22.

#### (c) Civil aircraft equipment

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any product (1) which is standard equipment, certified by the Federal Aviation Administration, in civil aircraft and is an integral part of such aircraft, and (2) which is to be exported to a country other than a controlled country, shall be subject to export controls exclusively under this chapter. Any such product shall not be subject to controls under section 2778(b)(2) of title 22.

#### (d) Nonproliferation controls

(1) Nothing in section 4604 or 4605 of this title shall be construed to supersede the procedures published by the President pursuant to section 2139a(c) of title 42.

(2) With respect to any export license application which, under the procedures published by the President pursuant to section 2139a(c) of title 42, is referred to the Subgroup on Nuclear Export Coordination or other interagency group, the provisions of section 4609 of this title shall apply with respect to such license application only to the extent that they are consistent with such published procedures, except that if the processing of any such application under such procedures is not completed within 180 days after the receipt of the application by the Secretary, the applicant shall have the rights of appeal and court action provided in section 4609(j) of this title.

#### (e) Termination of other authority

On October 1, 1979, the Mutual Defense Assistance Control Act of 1951 (22 U.S.C. 1611–1613d), is superseded.

#### (f) Agricultural Act of 1970

Nothing in this chapter shall affect the provisions of the last sentence of section 612c–3 [1](#4619_1_target) of title 7.

(Pub. L. 96–72, §17, Sept. 29, 1979, 93 Stat. 534; Pub. L. 99–64, title I, §118, July 12, 1985, 99 Stat. 154.)

#### Termination Date

For termination of authority granted by this chapter, see section 4622 of this title.

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) to (c) and (f), was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 96–72, Sept. 29, 1979, 93 Stat. 503, known as the Export Administration Act of 1979, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4601 of this title and Tables.

The Mutual Defense Assistance Control Act of 1951, referred to in subsec. (e), is act Oct. 26, 1951, ch. 575, 65 Stat. 644, which was classified generally to chapter 20A (§1611 et seq.) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, prior to its supersedure by subsec. (e) of this section. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Section 612c–3 of title 7, referred to in subsec. (a)(13)(A), was repealed by Pub. L. 101–624, title XV, §1578, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3702. See section 5712 of Title 7.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2416 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**1985**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99–64, §118(a)(1), substituted "Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, nothing" for "Nothing".

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 99–64, §118(a)(2), struck out sentence which provided that for purposes of this subsection "controlled country" means any country described in section 2370(f) of title 22.

Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 99–64, §118(b), added subsec. (f).

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions conferred upon President under this chapter delegated to Secretary of Commerce, with certain exceptions, by Ex. Ord. No. 12214, May 2, 1980, 45 F.R. 29783, set out under section 4603 of this title.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#4619_1)