### §4620. Authorization of appropriations

#### (a) Requirement of authorizing legislation

(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, money appropriated to the Department of Commerce for expenses to carry out the purposes of this chapter may be obligated or expended only if—

(A) the appropriation thereof has been previously authorized by law enacted on or after the date of the enactment of the Export Administration Amendments Act of 1985; or

(B) the amount of all such obligations and expenditures does not exceed an amount previously prescribed by law enacted on or after such date.

  

(2) To the extent that legislation enacted after the making of an appropriation to carry out the purposes of this chapter authorizes the obligation or expenditure thereof, the limitation contained in paragraph (1) shall have no effect.

(3) The provisions of this subsection shall not be superseded except by a provision of law enacted after the date of the enactment of the Export Administration Amendments Act of 1985 which specifically repeals, modifies, or supersedes the provisions of this subsection.

#### (b) Authorization

There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Commerce to carry out the purposes of this chapter—

(1) $42,813,000 for the fiscal year 1993;

(2) such sums as may be necessary for the fiscal year 1994; and

(3) such additional amounts, for each such fiscal year, as may be necessary for increases in salary, pay, retirement, other employee benefits authorized by law, and other nondiscretionary costs.

(Pub. L. 96–72, §18, Sept. 29, 1979, 93 Stat. 534; Pub. L. 97–145, §2(a), Dec. 29, 1981, 95 Stat. 1727; Pub. L. 99–64, title I, §119, July 12, 1985, 99 Stat. 154; Pub. L. 99–633, §1, Nov. 7, 1986, 100 Stat. 3522; Pub. L. 100–418, title II, §2430, Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1362; Pub. L. 103–10, §1, Mar. 27, 1993, 107 Stat. 40.)

#### Termination Date

For termination of authority granted by this chapter, see section 4622 of this title.

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 96–72, Sept. 29, 1979, 93 Stat. 503, known as the Export Administration Act of 1979, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4601 of this title and Tables.

The date of the enactment of the Export Administration Amendments Act of 1985, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), (3), is the date of enactment of titles I and II of Pub. L. 99–64, which Act was approved July 12, 1985.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2417 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**1993**—Subsec. (b)(1) to (3). Pub. L. 103–10 added pars. (1) to (3) and struck out former pars. (1) to (3) which read as follows:

"(1) $35,935,000 for the fiscal year 1988, of which $12,746,000 shall be available only for enforcement, $2,000,000 shall be available only for foreign availability assessments under subsections (f) and (h)(6) of section 4604 of this title, and $21,189,000 shall be available for all other activities under this chapter;

"(2) $46,913,000 for the fiscal year 1989, of which $15,000,000 shall be available only for enforcement, $5,000,000 shall be available only for foreign availability assessments under subsections (f) and (h)(6) of section 4604 of this title, $4,000,000 shall be available only for regional export control assistance centers, and $22,913,000 shall be available for all other activities under this chapter; and

"(3) such additional amounts for each of the fiscal years 1988 and 1989 as may be necessary for increases in salary, pay, retirement, other employee benefits authorized by law, and other nondiscretionary costs."

**1988**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 100–418, §2430(1), substituted "the fiscal year 1988" for "each of the fiscal years 1987 and 1988" and struck out "for each such year" after "available" in three places and "and" after semicolon at end.

Subsec. (b)(2), (3). Pub. L. 100–418, §2430(2), added pars. (2) and (3) and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: "such additional amounts for each of the fiscal years 1987 and 1988 as may be necessary for increases in salary, pay, retirement, other employee benefits authorized by law, and other nondiscretionary costs."

**1986**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 99–633 amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) read as follows: "There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Commerce to carry out the purposes of this chapter—

"(1) $24,600,000 for the fiscal year 1985, of which $8,712,000 shall be available only for enforcement, $1,851,000 shall be available only for foreign availability assessments under subsections (f) and (h)(6) of section 4604 of this title, and $14,037,000 shall be available for all other activities under this chapter;

"(2) $29,382,000 for the fiscal year 1986, of which $9,243,000 shall be available only for enforcement, $2,000,000 shall be available only for foreign availability assessments under subsections (f) and (h)(6) of section 4604 of this title, and $18,139,000 shall be available for all other activities under this chapter; and

"(3) such additional amounts for each of the fiscal years 1985 and 1986 as may be necessary for increases in salary, pay, retirement, other employee benefits authorized by law, and other nondiscretionary costs."

**1985**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99–64, §119, amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: "Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no appropriation shall be made under any law to the Department of Commerce for expenses to carry out the purposes of this chapter unless previously and specifically authorized by law."

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 99–64, §119, amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) read as follows: "There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Commerce to carry out the purposes of this chapter—

"(1) $9,659,000 for each of the fiscal years 1982 and 1983; and

"(2) such additional amounts, for each such fiscal year, as may be necessary for increases in salary, pay, retirement, other employee benefits authorized by law, and other nondiscretionary costs."

**1981**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 97–145 substituted authorization of appropriation of $9,659,000 for each of the fiscal years 1982 and 1983 for authorization of appropriation of $8,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1980 and 1981, of which $1,250,000 were to be available for each such fiscal year only for purpose of carrying out foreign availability assessments pursuant to section 4604(f)(5) of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Pub. L. 97–145, §2(b), Dec. 29, 1981, 95 Stat. 1727, provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (a) \[amending this section\] shall be effective as of October 1, 1981."