### §4623. Savings provisions

#### (a) In general

All delegations, rules, regulations, orders, determinations, licenses, or other forms of administrative action which have been made, issued, conducted, or allowed to become effective under the Export Control Act of 1949 or the Export Administration Act of 1969 and which are in effect at the time this chapter takes effect shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, superseded, set aside, or revoked under this chapter.

#### (b) Administrative proceedings

This chapter shall not apply to any administrative proceedings commenced or any application for a license made, under the Export Administration Act of 1969, which is pending at the time this chapter takes effect.

(Pub. L. 96–72, §21, Sept. 29, 1979, 93 Stat. 535.)

#### Termination Date

For termination of authority granted by this chapter, see section 4622 of this title.

#### References in Text

The Export Control Act of 1949, referred to in subsec. (a), is act Feb. 26, 1949, ch. 11, 63 Stat. 7, which was classified to sections 2021 to 2032 of the former Appendix to this title, prior to termination of this Act on Dec. 31, 1969. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The Export Administration Act of 1969, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 91–184, Dec. 30, 1969, 83 Stat. 841, which was classified to sections 2401 to 2413 of the former Appendix to this title, prior to termination of this Act on Sept. 30, 1979. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 96–72, Sept. 29, 1979, 93 Stat. 503, known as the Export Administration Act of 1979, which is classified principally to this chapter. For the time this chapter takes effect, see section 4621 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4601 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2420 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.