### §4618. Definitions

As used in this chapter—

(1) the term "person" includes the singular and the plural and any individual, partnership, corporation, or other form of association, including any government or agency thereof;

(2) the term "United States person" means any United States resident or national (other than an individual resident outside the United States and employed by other than a United States person), any domestic concern (including any permanent domestic establishment of any foreign concern) and any foreign subsidiary or affiliate (including any permanent foreign establishment) of any domestic concern which is controlled in fact by such domestic concern, as determined under regulations of the President;

(3) the term "good" means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data;

(4) the term "technology" means the information and know-how (whether in tangible form, such as models, prototypes, drawings, sketches, diagrams, blueprints, or manuals, or in intangible form, such as training or technical services) that can be used to design, produce, manufacture, utilize, or reconstruct goods, including computer software and technical data, but not the goods themselves;

(5) the term "export" means—

(A) an actual shipment, transfer, or transmission of goods or technology out of the United States;

(B) a transfer of goods or technology in the United States to an embassy or affiliate of a controlled country; or

(C) a transfer to any person of goods or technology either within the United States or outside of the United States with the knowledge or intent that the goods or technology will be shipped, transferred, or transmitted to an unauthorized recipient;

  

(6) the term "controlled country" means a controlled country under section 4604(b)(1) of this title;

(7) the term "United States" means the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States, and includes the outer Continental Shelf, as defined in section 1331(a) of title 43; and

(8) the term "Secretary" means the Secretary of Commerce.

(Pub. L. 96–72, §16, Sept. 29, 1979, 93 Stat. 533; Pub. L. 99–64, title I, §117, July 12, 1985, 99 Stat. 153.)

#### Termination Date

For termination of authority granted by this chapter, see section 4622 of this title.

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 96–72, Sept. 29, 1979, 93 Stat. 503, known as the Export Administration Act of 1979, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4601 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2415 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**1985**—Par. (3). Pub. L. 99–64, §117(1), inserted "natural or manmade substance,".

Par. (4). Pub. L. 99–64, §117(2), amended par. (4) generally, substituting "the term 'technology' means the information and know-how (whether in tangible form, such as models, prototypes, drawings, sketches, diagrams, blueprints, or manuals, or in intangible form, such as training or technical services) that can be used to design, produce, manufacture, utilize, or reconstruct goods, including computer software and technical data, but not the goods themselves;" for "the information and knowhow that can be used to design, produce, manufacture, utilize, or reconstruct goods, including computer software and technical data, but not the goods themselves; and".

Pars. (5) to (8). Pub. L. 99–64, §117(3), (4), added pars. (5) to (7) and redesignated former par. (5) as (8).

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions conferred upon President under this section delegated to Secretary of Commerce by Ex. Ord. No. 12214, May 2, 1980, 45 F.R. 29783, set out under section 4603 of this title.