### §304. Director of the Government Publishing Office: vacancy in office

In case of the death, resignation, absence, or sickness of the Director of the Government Publishing Office, the Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office shall perform the duties of the Director of the Government Publishing Office until a successor is appointed or the Director's absence or sickness ceases; but the President may direct any other officer of the Government, whose appointment is vested in the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to perform the duties of the vacant office until a successor is appointed, or the sickness or absence of the Director of the Government Publishing Office ceases. A vacancy occasioned by death or resignation may not be filled temporarily under this section for longer than ten days, and a temporary appointment, designation, or assignment of another officer may not be made except to fill a vacancy happening during a recess of the Senate.

(Pub. L. 90–620, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1239; Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, §1301(c), (e)(1), (i)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537, 2538.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., §32 (Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, §36, 28 Stat. 606; May 27, 1908, ch. 200, §1, 35 Stat. 382.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–235, §1301(i)(1), substituted "or the Director's" for "or his".

Pub. L. 113–235, §1301(e)(1), substituted "Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office" for "Deputy Public Printer".

Pub. L. 113–235, §1301(c), substituted "Director of the Government Publishing Office" for "Public Printer" in section catchline and wherever appearing in text.