### §1984. Prioritization of marine debris in existing innovation and entrepreneurship programs

In carrying out any relevant innovation and entrepreneurship programs that improve the innovation, effectiveness, and efficiency of the Marine Debris Program established under section 1952 [1](#1984_1_target) of this title without undermining the purpose for which such program was established, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, the EPA Administrator, and the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, shall prioritize efforts to combat marine debris, including by—

(1) increasing innovation in methods and the effectiveness of efforts to identify, determine sources of, assess, prevent, reduce, and remove marine debris; and

(2) addressing the impacts of marine debris on—

(A) the economy of the United States;

(B) the marine environment; and

(C) navigation safety.

(Pub. L. 109–449, §134, formerly §10, as added Pub. L. 116–224, title I, §101(3), Dec. 18, 2020, 134 Stat. 1075; renumbered §134 and amended Pub. L. 119–65, §§4(b)(1), 6(e), Dec. 26, 2025, 139 Stat. 1989, 1990.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1952 of this title, referred to in text, was in the original "section 3", and was translated as reading "section 101" of Pub. L. 109–449 to reflect the probable intent of Congress and the renumbering of section 3 as 101 by Pub. L. 119–65, §2(a)(2).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1959 of this title prior to renumbering by Pub. L. 119–65.

#### Amendments

**2025**—Pub. L. 119–65, §6(e), substituted "EPA Administrator" for "Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency" in introductory provisions.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#1984_1)