### §8716. Naval Observatory: exchange of information with foreign offices

(a) The Secretary of the Navy may arrange to exchange data with foreign almanac offices to reduce the duplication of work in preparing the different national nautical and astronomical almanacs and make available for publication a larger amount of data useful to navigators and astronomers. Each such arrangement shall be made terminable on one year's notice.

(b) The work of the Nautical Almanac Office shall be so conducted that in an emergency the part of the work intended for the use of navigators may be computed by the force of the office without foreign cooperation.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 457, §7396; Pub. L. 95–357, Sept. 8, 1978, 92 Stat. 591; renumbered §8716, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(4), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                    |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| 7396              | 5 U.S.C. 464.        | Aug. 22, 1912, ch. 335, 37 Stat. 342 (2d par.). |

In subsection (a) the words "as he may from time to time deem desirable with a view" are omitted as surplusage. The words "a larger amount of data useful" are substituted for the words "increase the total data which may be of use" for clarity.

In subsection (b) the words "during the continuance of any such arrangement" are omitted as surplusage. The third proviso of 5 U.S.C. 464 is omitted as obsolete.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7396 of this title as this section.

**1978**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95–357 struck out "in the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac" after "for publication".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.