### §3837d. Payments

#### (a) Time of payment

The Secretary shall provide payment for obligations incurred by the Secretary under this subpart—

(1) with respect to any cost sharing obligation as soon as possible after the obligation is incurred; and

(2) with respect to any annual easement payment obligation incurred by the Secretary as soon as possible after October 1 of each calendar year.

#### (b) Payments to others

If an owner who is entitled to a payment under this subpart dies, becomes incompetent, is otherwise unable to receive such payment, or is succeeded by another person who renders or completes the required performance, the Secretary shall make such payment, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary and without regard to any other provision of law, in such manner as the Secretary determines is fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances.

#### (c) Payment limitation

#### (1) In general

The total amount of payments that a person or legal entity may receive, directly or indirectly, under this subpart for any year may not exceed $50,000, except such limitation shall not apply with respect to payments for perpetual or 30-year easements or under 30-year contracts.

#### (2) Regulations

The Secretary shall issue regulations prescribing such rules as the Secretary determines necessary to ensure a fair and reasonable application of the limitation contained in this subsection.

#### (3) Other payments

Easement payments received by an owner shall be in addition to, and not affect, the total amount of payments that such owner is otherwise eligible to receive under this Act, the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, or the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.).

#### (d) Exemption from automatic sequester

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no order issued under section 902 of title 2 shall affect any payment under this subpart.

(Pub. L. 99–198, title XII, §1237D, as added Pub. L. 101–624, title XIV, §1438, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3588; amended Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, §101(a) \[title VII, §751\], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681, 2681–32; Pub. L. 110–234, title II, §§2208, 2209, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1040; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title II, §§2208, 2209, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1768.)

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(3), is Pub. L. 99–198, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1354, as amended, known as the Food Security Act of 1985. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1985 Amendment note set out under section 1281 of Title 7, Agriculture, and Tables.

The Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, referred to in subsec. (c)(3), is Pub. L. 101–624, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3359, as amended. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1990 Amendment note set out under section 1421 of Title 7 and Tables.

The Agricultural Act of 1949, referred to in subsec. (c)(3), is act Oct. 31, 1949, ch. 792, 63 Stat. 1051, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 35A (§1421 et seq.) of Title 7. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1421 of Title 7 and Tables.

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by Pub. L. 110–234 were repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### Amendments

**2008**—Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 110–246, §2208, substituted “The total amount of payments that a person or legal entity may receive, directly or indirectly,” for “The total amount of easement payments made to a person” and inserted “or under 30-year contracts” before period at end.

Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 110–246, §2209, struck out par. (4). Text read as follows: “The provisions of this subsection that limit payments to any person, and section 1305(d) of the Agricultural Reconciliation Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 1308 note), shall not be applicable to payments received by a State, political subdivision, or agency thereof in connection with agreements entered into under a special wetland and environmental easement enhancement program carried out by that entity that has been approved by the Secretary. The Secretary may enter into such agreements for payments to States, political subdivisions, or agencies thereof that the Secretary determines will advance the purposes of this subpart.”

**1998**—Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 105–277 inserted “or 30-year” after “perpetual”.

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8701 of Title 7, Agriculture.