### §1610. Implementation of provisions by Secretary; utilization of information and data of other organizations; avoidance of duplication of planning, etc.; "renewable resources" defined

In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall utilize information and data available from other Federal, State, and private organizations and shall avoid duplication and overlap of resource assessment and program planning efforts of other Federal agencies. The term "renewable resources" shall be construed to involve those matters within the scope of responsibilities and authorities of the Forest Service on August 17, 1974 and on the date of enactment of any legislation amendatory or supplementary thereto.

(Pub. L. 93–378, §12, formerly §11, Aug. 17, 1974, 88 Stat. 480, renumbered §12 and amended Pub. L. 94–588, §§2, 10, Oct. 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 2949, 2957; Pub. L. 115–141, div. O, title II, §208(b)(2), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 1066.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–141 substituted "Secretary" for "Secretary of Agriculture".

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–588, §10, inserted "and on the date of enactment of any legislation amendatory or supplementary thereto".

  

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of Agriculture under this subchapter to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, and subsequent transfer to Secretary of Energy, then to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, see note set out under section 1601 of this title.