### §2193a. Improvement of education in technical fields: general authority for support of elementary and secondary education in science and mathematics

The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Education, may establish programs for the purpose of improving the mathematics and scientific knowledge and skills of elementary and secondary school students and faculty members.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, §580(c)(1), (2), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 632, 633.)

#### Codification

The text of section 2193(b) of this title, which was transferred to, and redesignated as text of, this section, was based on Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title II, §247(a)(1), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1521.

#### Amendments

**1999**—Pub. L. 106–65, §580(c)(2), renumbered section 2193(b) of this title as text of this section. See Codification note above.

#### Pilot Program on Enhancement of Preparation of Dependents of Members of Armed Forces for Careers in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics

Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title II, §233, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3334, provided that:

"(a) Pilot Program.—The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of—

"(1) enhancing the preparation of covered students for careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics; and

"(2) providing assistance to teachers at covered schools to enhance preparation described in paragraph (1).

"(b) Coordination.—In carrying out the pilot program, the Secretary shall coordinate with the following:

"(1) The Secretaries of the military departments.

"(2) The Secretary of Education.

"(3) The National Science Foundation.

"(4) The heads of such other Federal, State, and local government and private sector organizations as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.

"(c) Activities.—Activities under the pilot program may include the following:

"(1) Establishment of targeted internships and cooperative research opportunities at defense laboratories and other technical centers for covered students and teachers at covered schools.

"(2) Establishment of scholarships and fellowships for covered students.

"(3) Efforts and activities that improve the quality of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics educational and training opportunities for covered students and teachers at covered schools, including with respect to improving the development of curricula at covered schools.

"(4) Development of travel opportunities, demonstrations, mentoring programs, and informal science education for covered students and teachers at covered schools.

"(d) Metrics.—The Secretary shall establish outcome-based metrics and internal and external assessments to evaluate the merits and benefits of activities conducted under the pilot program with respect to the needs of the Department of Defense.

"(e) Authorities.—In carrying out the pilot program, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, make use of the authorities under chapter 111 and sections 2601, 2605, and 2374a of title 10, United States Code, section 219 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 \[Pub. L. 110–417\] (10 U.S.C. 2358 note), and such other authorities as the Secretary considers appropriate.

"(f) Report.—Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 19, 2014\], the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on activities carried out under the pilot program.

"(g) Termination.—The pilot program shall terminate on September 30, 2020.

"(h) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) The term 'covered schools' means elementary or secondary schools at which the Secretary determines a significant number of dependents of members of the Armed Forces are enrolled.

"(2) The term 'covered students' means dependents of members of the Armed Forces who are enrolled at a covered school."