### §834. Art. 34. Advice of staff judge advocate and reference for trial

(a) Before directing the trial of any charge by general court-martial, the convening authority shall refer it to his staff judge advocate for consideration and advice. The convening authority may not refer a specification under a charge to a general court-martial for trial unless he has been advised in writing by the staff judge advocate that—

(1) the specification alleges an offense under this chapter;

(2) the specification is warranted by the evidence indicated in the report of investigation under section 832 of this title (article 32) (if there is such a report); and

(3) a court-martial would have jurisdiction over the accused and the offense.

  

(b) The advice of the staff judge advocate under subsection (a) with respect to a specification under a charge shall include a written and signed statement by the staff judge advocate—

(1) expressing his conclusions with respect to each matter set forth in subsection (a); and

(2) recommending action that the convening authority take regarding the specification.

  

If the specification is referred for trial, the recommendation of the staff judge advocate shall accompany the specification.

(c) If the charges or specifications are not formally correct or do not conform to the substance of the evidence contained in the report of the investigating officer, formal corrections, and such changes in the charges and specifications as are needed to make them conform to the evidence, may be made.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 49; Pub. L. 98–209, §4, Dec. 6, 1983, 97 Stat. 1395.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 834(a)  834(b)    | 50:605(a).  50:605(b). | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 34), 64 Stat. 119. |

In subsection (a), the word “may” is substituted for the word “shall”.

#### Amendments

**1983**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 98–209, §4(a), substituted “judge advocate” for “judge advocate or legal officer”, and provisions that the convening authority may not refer a specification under a charge to a general court-martial for trial unless he has been advised in writing by the staff judge advocate that the specification alleges an offense under this chapter, the specification is warranted by the evidence indicated in the report of investigation under section 832 of this title (article 32) (if there is such a report), and a court-martial would have jurisdiction over the accused and the offense, for provision that the convening authority could not refer a charge to a general court-martial for trial unless he found that the charge alleged an offense under this chapter and was warranted by evidence indicated in the report of investigation.

Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 98–209, §4(b), added subsec. (b) and redesignated former subsec. (b) as (c).

#### Effective Date of 1983 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 98–209 effective first day of eighth calendar month beginning after Dec. 6, 1983, but not to apply to any case in which charges were referred to trial before that date, and proceedings in any such case to be held in the same manner and with the same effect as if such amendments had not been enacted, see section 12(a)(1), (3) of Pub. L. 98–209, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.