### §830. Art. 30. Charges and specifications

(a) Charges and specifications shall be signed by a person subject to this chapter under oath before a commissioned officer of the armed forces authorized to administer oaths and shall state—

(1) that the signer has personal knowledge of or has investigated, the matters set forth therein; and

(2) that they are true in fact to the best of his knowledge and belief.

  

(b) Upon the preferring of charges, the proper authority shall take immediate steps to determine what disposition should be made thereof in the interest of justice and discipline, and the person accused shall be informed of the charges against him as soon as practicable.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 47; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LVI, §5201, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2904.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LVI, §5201, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2904, 2967, and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, Mar. 1, 2018, 83 F.R. 9889, provided that, except as otherwise provided, effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is amended to read as follows:

#### §830. Art 30. Charges and specifications

(a) In General.—Charges and specifications—

(1) may be preferred only by a person subject to this chapter; and

(2) shall be preferred by presentment in writing, signed under oath before a commissioned officer of the armed forces who is authorized to administer oaths.

  

(b) Required Content.—The writing under subsection (a) shall state that—

(1) the signer has personal knowledge of, or has investigated, the matters set forth in the charges and specifications; and

(2) the matters set forth in the charges and specifications are true, to the best of the knowledge and belief of the signer.

  

(c) Duty of Proper Authority.—When charges and specifications are preferred under subsection (a), the proper authority shall, as soon as practicable—

(1) inform the person accused of the charges and specifications; and

(2) determine what disposition should be made of the charges and specifications in the interest of justice and discipline.

See 2016 Amendment note below.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 830(a)  830(b)    | 50:601(a).  50:601(b). | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 30), 64 Stat. 118. |

In subsection (a), the word "they" is substituted for the words "the same". The word "commissioned" is inserted for clarity.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

"(a) Charges and specifications shall be signed by a person subject to this chapter under oath before a commissioned officer of the armed forces authorized to administer oaths and shall state—

"(1) that the signer has personal knowledge of or has investigated, the matters set forth therein; and

"(2) that they are true in fact to the best of his knowledge and belief.

"(b) Upon the preferring of charges, the proper authority shall take immediate steps to determine what disposition should be made thereof in the interest of justice and discipline, and the person accused shall be informed of the charges against him as soon as practicable."

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.