### §6454. Responsibilities of Federal agency members

#### (a) In general

A member of the Task Force described in section 6453(a) of this title shall—

(1) identify the actions of the agency that member represents that may affect coral reef ecosystems;

(2) use the programs and authorities of that agency to protect and enhance the conditions of such ecosystems, including through the promotion of basic and applied scientific research;

(3) collaborate with the Task Force to appropriately reflect budgetary needs for coral reef conservation and restoration activities in all agency budget planning and justification documents and processes; and

(4) engage in any other coordinated efforts approved by the Task Force.

#### (b) Co-chairpersons

In addition to their responsibilities under subsection (a), the co-chairpersons of the Task Force shall perform the administrative functions of the Task Force and facilitate the coordination of the members of the Task Force described in section 6453(a) of this title.

#### (c) Briefing

Not less than 30 days before each meeting of the Task Force, the program offices of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration responsible for implementing this title shall provide a briefing to the relevant congressional committees on efforts and spending associated with such implementation.

(Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title C, §10014, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3953.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in subsec. (c), means title C of division J of Pub. L. 117–263, which enacted this chapter and sections 6401 to 6415 of this title, amended section 7504 of this title, repealed sections 6401 to 6409 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 6401 of this title. For complete classification of title C to the Code, see Tables.