### §2658. Report on counterintelligence and security practices at national security laboratories

#### (a) In general

Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Congress a report for the preceding year on counterintelligence and security practices at the facilities of the national security laboratories (whether or not classified activities are carried out at the facility).

#### (b) Content of report

The report shall include, with respect to each national security laboratory, the following:

(1) The number of employees, including full-time counterintelligence and security professionals and contractor employees.

(2) A description of the counterintelligence and security training courses conducted and, for each such course, any requirement that employees successfully complete that course.

(3) A description of each contract awarded that provides an incentive for the effective performance of counterintelligence or security activities.

(4) A description of the requirement that an employee report the travel to sensitive countries of that employee (whether or not the travel was for official business).

(5) The number of trips by individuals who traveled to sensitive countries, with identification of the sensitive countries visited.

(Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLV, §4507, formerly Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXI, §3152, Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 940; renumbered Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLV, §4507, and amended Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, §3141(h)(8), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1773; Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, §3131(n)(1), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2183.)

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 7383f of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by Pub. L. 108–136.

#### Amendments

**2013**—Pub. L. 112–239, §3131(n)(1)(A), substituted “national security laboratories” for “national laboratories” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 112–239, §3131(n)(1)(B), substituted “national security laboratories” for “national laboratories”.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 112–239, §3131(n)(1)(C), substituted “national security laboratory” for “national laboratory” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 112–239, §3131(n)(1)(D), struck out subsec. (c), which defined “national laboratory”.

**2003**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 108–136, §3141(h)(8)(D), added subsec. (c).