### §1715. Consular and Border Security Programs

#### (a) Separate fund

There is established in the Treasury a separate fund to be known as the "Consular and Border Security Programs" account into which the following fees shall be deposited for the purposes of the consular and border security programs.

#### (b) to (g) Omitted

#### (h) Transfer of funds

(1) The unobligated balances of amounts available from fees referenced under this section may be transferred to the Consular and Border Security Programs account.

(2) Funds deposited in or transferred to the Consular and Border Security Programs account may be transferred between funds appropriated under the heading "Administration of Foreign Affairs".

(3) The transfer authorities in this section shall be in addition to any other transfer authority available to the Department of State.

#### (i) Effective date

The amendments made by this section shall take effect no later than October 1, 2018, and shall be implemented in a manner that ensures the fees collected, transferred, and used in fiscal year 2019 can be readily tracked.

(Pub. L. 115–31, div. J, title VII, §7081, May 5, 2017, 131 Stat. 716.)

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 7081 of title VII of div. J of Pub. L. 115–31. Subsecs. (b) and (c) of section 7081 of Pub. L. 115–31 amended sections 1713 and 1714, respectively, of this title. Subsecs. (d) and (e) of section 7081 amended provisions set out as notes under sections 1153 and 1183a, respectively, of this title. Subsec. (f) of section 7081 amended section 214 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and subsec. (g) of section 7081 amended provisions set out as a note under section 214 of Title 22.