### §5112. Sexual assault and sexual harassment in the Coast Guard

(a) In General.—Not later than January 15 of each year, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall submit a report on the sexual assaults and incidents of sexual harassment involving members of the Coast Guard to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

(b) Contents.—The report required under subsection (a) shall contain the following:

(1) The number of sexual assaults and incidents of sexual harassment against members of the Coast Guard, and the number of sexual assaults and incidents of sexual harassment by members of the Coast Guard, that were reported to military officials during the year covered by such report, and the number of the cases so reported that were substantiated.

(2) A synopsis of, and the disciplinary action taken in, each substantiated case.

(3) The policies, procedures, and processes implemented by the Secretary concerned during the year covered by such report in response to incidents of sexual assault and sexual harassment involving members of the Coast Guard concerned.

(4) A plan for the actions that are to be taken in the year following the year covered by such report on the prevention of and response to sexual assault and sexual harassment involving members of the Coast Guard concerned.

(5)(A) The number of instances in which a covered individual was accused of misconduct or crimes considered collateral to the investigation of a sexual assault committed against the individual.

(B) The number of instances in which adverse action was taken against a covered individual who was accused of collateral misconduct or crimes as described in subparagraph (A).

(C) The percentage of investigations of sexual assaults that involved an accusation or adverse action against a covered individual as described in subparagraphs (A) and (B).

(D) In this paragraph, the term "covered individual" means an individual who is identified as a victim of a sexual assault in the case files of a military criminal investigative organization.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV \[LXXXV\], §8501(a)(7), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4745.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Pub. L. 111–281, title II, §217, Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 2917, formerly set out as a note under section 504 of this title, was redesignated as this section, transferred to appear after section 5111 of this title, and amended so that the enumerator, section catchline, typeface, and typestyle conformed to those appearing in other sections of this title by Pub. L. 116–283, §8501(a)(7)(A), (B)(i).

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §8501(a)(7)(A), (B)(i), redesignated section 217 of Pub. L. 111–281 as this section and made technical changes to conform this section to other sections of this title. See Codification note above.

Subsec. (b)(5). Pub. L. 116–283, §8501(a)(7)(B)(ii), added par. (5).