### §410ww–4. Administration

#### (a) In general

The park shall be administered in accordance with this subchapter and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including, but not limited to, the Act entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes", approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1–4).[1](#410ww-4_1_target)

#### (b) Donations

The Secretary may accept donations of funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, and other private entities, and from public entities, for the purposes of managing the park.

#### (c) Programs

The Secretary may sponsor, coordinate, or enter into cooperative agreements for educational or cultural programs related to the park as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

#### (d) Identification and marking of significant historical sites

The Secretary may identify other significant sites related to the Wright brothers, the history of aviation, or Paul Laurence Dunbar in the Miami Valley which are related to the park, and, with the consent of the owner or owners thereof, may mark the sites appropriately and make reference to them in any interpretive literature. The Secretary may provide interpretive markers along transportation routes leading to units of the park.

#### (e) Interpretation of Huffman Prairie Flying Field

The Secretary may provide interpretation of Huffman Prairie Flying Field on Wright Brothers Hill, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio.

(Pub. L. 102–419, title I, §105, Oct. 16, 1992, 106 Stat. 2142.)

#### References in Text

The Act entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes", approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1–4), referred to in subsec. (a), is act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408, 39 Stat. 535, known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, amended sections 22 and 43 of this title and section 1457 of Title 43, Public Lands, and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 1 of this title. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as section 1865(a) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, by Pub. L. 113–287, §§3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3094, 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#410ww-4_1)