### §40723. Sexual assault forensic exam program grants

#### (a) In general

The Attorney General shall make grants to eligible entities to provide training, technical assistance, education, equipment, and information relating to the identification, collection, preservation, analysis, and use of DNA samples and DNA evidence by medical personnel and other personnel, including doctors, medical examiners, coroners, nurses, victim service providers, and other professionals involved in treating victims of sexual assault and sexual assault examination programs, including SANE (Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner), SAFE (Sexual Assault Forensic Examiner), and SART (Sexual Assault Response Team).

#### (b) Eligible entity

For purposes of this section, the term "eligible entity" includes—

(1) States;

(2) units of local government; and

(3) sexual assault examination programs, including—

(A) sexual assault nurse examiner (SANE) programs;

(B) sexual assault forensic examiner (SAFE) programs;

(C) sexual assault response team (SART) programs;

(D) State sexual assault coalitions;

(E) medical personnel, including doctors, medical examiners, coroners, and nurses, involved in treating victims of sexual assault; and

(F) victim service providers involved in treating victims of sexual assault.

#### (c) Preference

#### (1) In general

In reviewing applications submitted in accordance with a program authorized, in whole or in part, by this section, the Attorney General shall give preference to any eligible entity that certifies that the entity will use the grant funds to—

(A) improve forensic nurse examiner programs in a rural area or for an underserved population, as those terms are defined in section 12291 [1](#40723_1_target) of this title;

(B) engage in activities that will assist in the employment of full-time forensic nurse examiners to conduct activities under subsection (a); or

(C) sustain or establish a training program for forensic nurse examiners.

#### (2) Directive to the Attorney General

Not later than the beginning of fiscal year 2018, the Attorney General shall coordinate with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to inform Federally Qualified Health Centers, Community Health Centers, hospitals, colleges and universities, and other appropriate health-related entities about the role of forensic nurses, both adult and pediatric, and existing resources available within the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services to train or employ forensic nurses to address the needs of communities dealing with sexual assault, domestic violence, elder abuse, and, in particular, the need for pediatric sexual assault nurse examiners, including such nurse examiners working in the multidisciplinary setting, in responding to abuse of both children and adolescents. The Attorney General shall collaborate on this effort with nongovernmental organizations representing forensic nurses.

#### (d) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2015 through 2019 to carry out this section.

(Pub. L. 108–405, title III, §304, Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2273; Pub. L. 110–360, §4, Oct. 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 4009; Pub. L. 113–182, §4, Sept. 29, 2014, 128 Stat. 1918; Pub. L. 114–324, §4, Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1950; Pub. L. 115–107, §2, Jan. 8, 2018, 131 Stat. 2266.)

#### References in Text

Section 12291 of this title, referred to in subsec. (c)(1)(A), was in the original a reference to section "4002" of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 and was translated as if it referred to section 40002 of that act to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 14136a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 115–107 inserted ", both adult and pediatric," after "role of forensic nurses" and substituted "elder abuse, and, in particular, the need for pediatric sexual assault nurse examiners, including such nurse examiners working in the multidisciplinary setting, in responding to abuse of both children and adolescents" for "and elder abuse".

**2016**—Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 114–324 added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

**2014**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 113–182 substituted "2015 through 2019" for "2009 through 2014".

**2008**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 110–360 substituted "2009 through 2014" for "2005 through 2009".

[1 See References in Text note below.](#40723_1)