### §7726. Oversight and inspections

(a) Inspections Required.—The Secretary of the Army shall provide for the oversight of the Cemeteries to ensure the highest quality standards are maintained by providing for the periodic inspection of the administration, operation and maintenance, and construction elements applicable to the Cemeteries. The inspections shall be conducted by personnel of the Department of the Army with the assistance, as the Secretary considers appropriate, of personnel from other Federal agencies and civilian experts.

(b) Submission of Results.—Not later than 120 days after the completion of an inspection conducted under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the results of the inspection and recommendations and a plan for corrective actions to be taken in response to the inspection.

(Added Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, §591(a)(1), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1441, §4726; renumbered §7726, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(d), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1839.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7726 was renumbered section 8896 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 4726 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.