### §7517. Hunger-free communities

#### (a) Definitions

In this section:

#### (1) Eligible entity

The term “eligible entity” means a public food program service provider or nonprofit organization, including an emergency feeding organization, that has collaborated, or will collaborate, with 1 or more local partner organizations to achieve at least 1 hunger-free communities goal.

#### (2) Emergency feeding organization

The term “emergency feeding organization” has the meaning given the term in section 7501 of this title.

#### (3) Hunger-free communities goal

The term “hunger-free communities goal” means any of the 14 goals described in the H. Con. Res. 302 (102nd Congress).

#### (b) Hunger-free communities collaborative grants

#### (1) Program

#### (A) In general

The Secretary shall use not more than 50 percent of any funds made available under subsection (e) to make grants to eligible entities to pay the Federal share of the costs of an activity described in paragraph (2).

#### (B) Federal share

The Federal share of the cost of carrying out an activity under this subsection shall not exceed 80 percent.

#### (C) Non-Federal share

#### (i) Calculation

The non-Federal share of the cost of an activity under this subsection may be provided in cash or fairly evaluated in-kind contributions, including facilities, equipment, or services.

#### (ii) Sources

Any entity may provide the non-Federal share of the cost of an activity under this subsection through a State government, a local government, or a private source.

#### (2) Use of funds

An eligible entity in a community shall use a grant received under this subsection for any fiscal year for hunger relief activities, including—

(A) meeting the immediate needs of people who experience hunger in the community served by the eligible entity by—

(i) distributing food;

(ii) providing community outreach to assist in participation in federally assisted nutrition programs, including—

(I) the school breakfast program established by section 1773 of title 42;

(II) the school lunch program established under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.);

(III) the summer food service program for children established under section 13 of that Act \[42 U.S.C. 1761\]; and

(IV) other Federal programs that provide food for children in child care facilities and homeless and older individuals; or

  

(iii) improving access to food as part of a comprehensive service; and

  

(B) developing new resources and strategies to help reduce hunger in the community and prevent hunger in the future by—

(i) developing creative food resources, such as community gardens, buying clubs, food cooperatives, community-owned and operated grocery stores, and farmers’ markets;

(ii) coordinating food services with park and recreation programs and other community-based outlets to reduce barriers to access; or

(iii) creating nutrition education programs for at-risk populations to enhance food-purchasing and food-preparation skills and to heighten awareness of the connection between diet and health.

#### (c) Hunger-free communities infrastructure grants

#### (1) Program authorized

#### (A) In general

The Secretary shall use not more than 50 percent of any funds made available for a fiscal year under subsection (e) to make grants to eligible entities to pay the Federal share of the costs of an activity described in paragraph (2).

#### (B) Federal share

The Federal share of the cost of carrying out an activity under this subsection shall not exceed 80 percent.

#### (2) Application

#### (A) In general

To receive a grant under this subsection, an eligible entity shall submit an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary may prescribe.

#### (B) Contents

Each application submitted under subparagraph (A) shall—

(i) identify any activity described in paragraph (3) that the grant will be used to fund; and

(ii) describe the means by which an activity identified under clause (i) will reduce hunger in the community of the eligible entity.

#### (C) Priority

In making grants under this subsection, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that demonstrate 2 or more of the following:

(i) The eligible entity serves a community in which the rates of food insecurity, hunger, poverty, or unemployment are demonstrably higher than national average rates.

(ii) The eligible entity serves a community that has successfully carried out long-term efforts to reduce hunger in the community.

(iii) The eligible entity serves a community that provides public support for the efforts of the eligible entity.

(iv) The eligible entity is committed to achieving more than 1 hunger-free communities goal.

#### (3) Use of funds

An eligible entity shall use a grant received under this subsection to construct, expand, or repair a facility or equipment to support hunger relief efforts in the community.

#### (d) Report

If funds are made available under subsection (e) to carry out this section, not later than September 30, 2012, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that describes—

(1) each grant made under this section, including—

(A) a description of any activity funded; and

(B) the degree of success of each activity funded in achieving hunger free-communities goals; and

  

(2) the degree of success of all activities funded under this section in achieving domestic hunger goals.

#### (e) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

(Pub. L. 110–234, title IV, §4405, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1138; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title IV, §4405, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1899.)

#### References in Text

H. Con. Res. 302 (102nd Congress), referred to in subsec. (a)(3), is H. Con. Res. 302, Oct. 5, 1992, 106 Stat. 5204, which is not classified to the Code.

The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(A)(ii)(II), is act June 4, 1946, ch. 281, 60 Stat. 230, which is classified generally to chapter 13 (§1751 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1751 of Title 42 and Tables.

#### Codification

The authorities provided by each provision of, and each amendment made by, Pub. L. 110–246, as in effect on Sept. 30, 2012, to continue, and the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out the authorities, until the later of Sept. 30, 2013, or the date specified in the provision of, or amendment made by, Pub. L. 110–246, see section 701(a) of Pub. L. 112–240, set out in a 1-Year Extension of Agricultural Programs note under section 8701 of this title.

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

Section was enacted as part of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, and not as part of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983 which comprises this chapter.

#### Effective Date

Enactment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 8701 of this title.

Section effective Oct. 1, 2008, see section 4407 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as an Effective Date of 2008 Amendment note under section 1161 of Title 2, The Congress.

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see section 8701 of this title.