### §215. Alimony, etc., payments

#### (a) General rule

In the case of an individual, there shall be allowed as a deduction an amount equal to the alimony or separate maintenance payments paid during such individual's taxable year.

#### (b) Alimony or separate maintenance payments defined

For purposes of this section, the term "alimony or separate maintenance payment" means any alimony or separate maintenance payment (as defined in section 71(b)) which is includible in the gross income of the recipient under section 71.

#### (c) Requirement of identification number

The Secretary may prescribe regulations under which—

(1) any individual receiving alimony or separate maintenance payments is required to furnish such individual's taxpayer identification number to the individual making such payments, and

(2) the individual making such payments is required to include such taxpayer identification number on such individual's return for the taxable year in which such payments are made.

#### (d) Coordination with section 682

No deduction shall be allowed under this section with respect to any payment if, by reason of section 682 (relating to income of alimony trusts), the amount thereof is not includible in such individual's gross income.

(Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 71; Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title IV, §422(b), July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 797.)

#### Repeal of Section

Pub. L. 115–97, title I, §11051(a), (c), Dec. 22, 2017, 131 Stat. 2089, 2090, provided that, applicable to any divorce or separation instrument (as defined in former section 71(b)(2) of this title as in effect before Dec. 22, 2017) executed after Dec. 31, 2018, and to such instruments executed on or before Dec. 31, 2018, and modified after Dec. 31, 2018, if the modification expressly provides that the amendment made by section 11051 of Pub. L. 115–97 applies to such modification, this section is repealed.

#### Amendments

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–369 amended section generally, substituting present provisions for provisions which had declared in: subsec. (a) a general rule as to allowance of deduction for amounts includible under section 71 in the gross income of the wife, payment of which was made within husband's taxable year, and prohibited any deduction with respect to any payment where by reason of section 71(d) or 682 the amount thereof was not includible in husband's gross income; and subsec. (b) cross reference to definitions of husband and wife in section 7701(a)(17).

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal applicable to any divorce or separation instrument (as defined in former section 71(b)(2) of this title as in effect before Dec. 22, 2017) executed after Dec. 31, 2018, and to such instruments executed on or before Dec. 31, 2018, and modified after Dec. 31, 2018, if the modification expressly provides that the amendment made by section 11051 of Pub. L. 115–97 applies to such modification, see section 11051(c) of Pub. L. 115–97, set out as an Effective Date of 2017 Amendment note under section 61 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 98–369 applicable with respect to divorce or separation instruments executed after Dec. 31, 1984, or executed before Jan. 1, 1985, but modified on or after Jan. 1, 1985, with express provision for application of amendment to modification; and amendment of subsec. (c) by Pub. L. 98–369 applicable to payments made after Dec. 31, 1984, see section 422(e) of Pub. L. 98–369, set out as a note under section 71 of this title.