### §300ee–1. Establishment of office with respect to minority health and acquired immune deficiency syndrome

The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall establish an office for the purpose of ensuring that, in carrying out the duties of the Secretary with respect to prevention of acquired immune deficiency syndrome, the Secretary develops and implements prevention programs targeted at minority populations and provides appropriate technical assistance in the implementation of such programs.

(Pub. L. 100–607, title II, §252, Nov. 4, 1988, 102 Stat. 3108; Pub. L. 102–531, title III, §312(e)(2), Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3506.)

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the AIDS Amendments of 1988 and as part of the Health Omnibus Programs Extension of 1988, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**1992**—Pub. L. 102–531 substituted "Centers for Disease Control and Prevention" for "Centers for Disease Control".

#### Requirement of Study With Respect to Minority Health and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

Pub. L. 100–607, title II, §251, Nov. 4, 1988, 102 Stat. 3108, as amended by Pub. L. 100–690, title II, §2602(b), Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4234, required the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Office of Minority Health, to conduct a Study With Respect to Minority Health and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome and report to Congress on the findings no later than 12 months after Nov. 4, 1988.