### §3208. Outreach responsibilities

The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in coordination with State and local emergency managers, shall develop and carry out formal outreach activities to improve tsunami education and awareness and foster the development of resilient communities. Outreach activities may include—

(1) the development of outreach plans to ensure the close integration of tsunami warning centers supported or maintained under section 3203(d) of this title, as amended by this Act, with local Weather Forecast Offices of the National Weather Service and emergency managers;

(2) working with appropriate local Weather Forecast Offices to ensure they have the technical knowledge and capability to disseminate tsunami warnings to the communities they serve; and

(3) evaluating the effectiveness of warnings and of coordination with local Weather Forecast Offices after significant tsunami events.

(Pub. L. 115–25, title V, §511, Apr. 18, 2017, 131 Stat. 127.)

#### References in Text

Section 3203(d) of this title, as amended by this Act, referred to in par. (1), means section 3203(d) of this title, as amended by Pub. L. 115–25.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Tsunami Warning, Education, and Research Act of 2017, and also as part of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017, and not as part of the Tsunami Warning and Education Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Definitions

For definition of "State" as used in this section, see section 8501 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade.