### §15733. Northern Border Regional Commission

The region of the Northern Border Regional Commission shall include the following counties:

(1) Maine.—The counties of Androscoggin, Aroostook, Franklin, Hancock, Kennebec, Knox, Oxford, Penobscot, Piscataquis, Somerset, Waldo, and Washington in the State of Maine.

(2) New hampshire.—The counties of Belknap, Carroll, Cheshire, Coos, Grafton, and Sullivan in the State of New Hampshire.

(3) New york.—The counties of Cayuga, Clinton, Essex, Franklin, Fulton, Genesee, Greene, Hamilton, Herkimer, Jefferson, Lewis, Livingston, Madison, Montgomery, Niagara, Oneida, Orleans, Oswego, Rensselaer, Saratoga, Schenectady, Seneca, St. Lawrence, Sullivan, Washington, Warren, Wayne, and Yates in the State of New York.

(4) Vermont.—The counties of Addison, Bennington, Caledonia, Chittenden, Essex, Franklin, Grand Isle, Lamoille, Orange, Orleans, Rutland, Washington, Windham, and Windsor in the State of Vermont.

(Added Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, §14217(a)(2), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1481, and Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title XIV, §14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2243; amended Pub. L. 115–334, title VI, §6304(d), Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 4752.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Par. (2). Pub. L. 115–334, §6304(d)(1), inserted "Belknap," before "Carroll," and "Cheshire," before "Coos,".

Par. (3). Pub. L. 115–334, §6304(d)(2), added par. (3) and struck out former par. (3). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "The counties of Cayuga, Clinton, Essex, Franklin, Fulton, Hamilton, Herkimer, Jefferson, Lewis, Madison, Oneida, Oswego, Seneca, and St. Lawrence in the State of New York."

Par. (4). Pub. L. 115–334, §6304(d)(3), inserted "Addison, Bennington," before "Caledonia,", "Chittenden," before "Essex,", and ", Rutland, Washington, Windham, and Windsor" before "in the State" and substituted "Orange," for "and".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first fiscal year beginning after June 18, 2008, see section 14217(d) of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 15101 of this title.