### §861. Art. 61. Waiver or withdrawal of appeal

(a) In each case subject to appellate review under section 866 or 869(a) of this title (article 66 or 69(a)), except a case in which the sentence as approved under section 860(c) of this title (article 60(c)) includes death, the accused may file with the convening authority a statement expressly waiving the right of the accused to such review. Such a waiver shall be signed by both the accused and by defense counsel and must be filed within 10 days after the action under section 860(c) of this title (article 60(c)) is served on the accused or on defense counsel. The convening authority or other person taking such action, for good cause, may extend the period for such filing by not more than 30 days.

(b) Except in a case in which the sentence as approved under section 860(c) of this title (article 60(c)) includes death, the accused may withdraw an appeal at any time.

(c) A waiver of the right to appellate review or the withdrawal of an appeal under this section bars review under section 866 or 869(a) of this title (article 66 or 69(a)).

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 58; Pub. L. 98–209, §5(b)(1), Dec. 6, 1983, 97 Stat. 1397; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LIX, §5325, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2928.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LIX, §5325, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2928, 2967, and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, Mar. 1, 2018, 83 F.R. 9889, provided that, except as otherwise provided, effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is amended to read as follows:

#### §861. Art. 61. Waiver of right to appeal; withdrawal of appeal

(a) Waiver of Right to Appeal.—After entry of judgment in a general or special court-martial, under procedures prescribed by the Secretary concerned, the accused may waive the right to appellate review in each case subject to such review under section 866 of this title (article 66). Such a waiver shall be—

(1) signed by the accused and by defense counsel; and

(2) attached to the record of trial.

  

(b) Withdrawal of Appeal.—In a general or special court-martial, the accused may withdraw an appeal at any time.

(c) Death Penalty Case Exception.—Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), an accused may not waive the right to appeal or withdraw an appeal with respect to a judgment that includes a sentence of death.

(d) Waiver or Withdrawal as Bar.—A waiver or withdrawal under this section bars review under section 866 of this title (article 66).

See 2016 Amendment note below.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 861               | 50:648.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 61), 64 Stat. 127. |

The word "each" is substituted for the word "every".

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to waiver or withdrawal of appeal.

**1983**—Pub. L. 98–209 amended section generally, substituting "Waiver or withdrawal of appeal" for "Same—General court-martial records" as section catchline, and, in text, substituting provisions relating to waiver or withdrawal of appeal for provisions relating to initial action by the convening authority on general court-martial records.

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1983 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 98–209 effective first day of eighth calendar month beginning after Dec. 6, 1983, but not to apply to any case in which the findings and sentence were adjudged by a court-martial before that date, and the proceedings in any such case to be held in the same manner and with the same effect as if such amendments had not been enacted, see section 12(a)(1), (4) of Pub. L. 98–209, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.