### §872. Art. 72. Vacation of suspension

(a) Before the vacation of the suspension of a special court-martial sentence which as approved includes a bad-conduct discharge, or of any general court-martial sentence, the officer having special court-martial jurisdiction over the probationer shall hold a hearing on the alleged violation of probation. The probationer shall be represented at the hearing by counsel if he so desires.

(b) The record of the hearing and the recommendation of the officer having special court-martial jurisdiction shall be sent for action to the officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over the probationer. If he vacates the suspension, any unexecuted part of the sentence, except a dismissal, shall be executed, subject to applicable restrictions in section 871 (c) of this title (article 71(c)). The vacation of the suspension of a dismissal is not effective until approved by the Secretary concerned.

(c) The suspension of any other sentence may be vacated by any authority competent to convene, for the command in which the accused is serving or assigned, a court of the kind that imposed the sentence.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 63; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LIX, §5335, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2936.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LIX, §5335, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2936, 2967, made amendments to this section effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations. After such effective date, this section will read:

#### §872. Art. 72. Vacation of suspension

(a) Before the vacation of the suspension of a special court-martial sentence which as approved includes a bad-conduct discharge, or of any general court-martial sentence, the officer having special court-martial jurisdiction over the probationer shall hold a hearing on the alleged violation of probation. The special court-martial convening authority may detail a judge advocate, who is certified under section 827(b) of this title (article 27(b)), to conduct the hearing. The probationer shall be represented at the hearing by counsel if the probationer so desires.

(b) The record of the hearing and the recommendation of the officer having special court-martial jurisdiction shall be sent for action to the officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over the probationer. If the officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction vacates the suspension, any unexecuted part of the sentence, except a dismissal, shall be executed, subject to applicable restrictions in section 857 of this title (article 57). The vacation of the suspension of a dismissal is not effective until approved by the Secretary concerned.

(c) The suspension of any other sentence may be vacated by any authority competent to convene, for the command in which the accused is serving or assigned, a court of the kind that imposed the sentence.

See 2016 Amendment notes below.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 872(a)  872(b)    | 50:659(a).  50:659(b). | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 72), 64 Stat. 131. |
| 872(c)            | 50:659(c).             |                                                   |

In subsection (a), the word "Before" is substituted for the words "Prior to".

In subsection (b), the words "be effective \* \* \* to" are omitted as surplusage.

The second sentence is restated to make it clear that the execution of the rest of the court-martial sentence is not automatic. The word "is" is substituted for the words "shall \* \* \* be" in the last sentence. The word "sent" is substituted for the word "forwarded". The words "Secretary concerned" are substituted for the words "Secretary of the Department".

#### Amendments

**2016**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 114–328, §5335(a), (b)(1), inserted "The special court-martial convening authority may detail a judge advocate, who is certified under section 827(b) of this title (article 27(b)), to conduct the hearing." after first sentence and substituted "if the probationer so desires" for "if he so desires" in last sentence.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 114–328, §5335(b)(2), substituted "If the officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction" for "If he" and "section 857 of this title (article 57)" for "section 871(c) of this title (article 71(c))".

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.