### **CHAPTER 19—BOUNTY LANDS**

#### Repeals; Rights Saved; Authorization To Purchase and Cancel Unsatisfied Warrants; Procedure; Limitations; Rights of Transferees; Funds for Payments

Pub. L. 87–558, July 27, 1962, 76 Stat. 246, provided: "That sections 457, 473, and 2414–2446, inclusive, of the Revised Statutes, as amended \[sections 782, 785, 791 to 808, and 821 to 835 of this title\], and the Act of December 13, 1894 (28 Stat. 594) \[section 783 of this title\], are hereby repealed. Repeal of said laws shall not affect the rights of holders of warrants described in section 2 of this Act, until such rights are extinguished in accordance with said section, to have their warrants receivable in payment or part payment for lands under the Act of December 13, 1894, supra, to assign their warrants pursuant to sections 2414 and 2444 of the Revised Statutes, and to secure a new warrant in lieu of a warrant lost or destroyed pursuant to section 2441 of the Revised Statutes.

"Sec. 2. The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to purchase at the rate of $1.25 per acre from the holders thereof and to cancel all valid unsatisfied military bounty land warrants which were issued pursuant to the laws repealed by section 1 of this Act and which are recorded with the Secretary pursuant to, and under the terms and conditions of, the Act of August 5, 1955 (69 Stat. 534) \[set out as a note to section 274 of this title\], and the regulations issued thereunder. The Secretary will send his offer to purchase by registered mail to the post office address of the holder of record with the Secretary as of the time the offer is made and will require the holder to surrender the warrant as a condition of payment therefor. If the holder of a warrant, within one year from and after receipt of an offer to purchase from the Secretary, shall fail to surrender his warrant and accept payment therefor as provided for in this section, the warrant shall not thereafter be accepted by the Secretary of the Interior for further recordation under the Act of 1955, supra, or as a basis for the acquisition of lands, or for payment under this section: *Provided*, That if within the one year after receipt of an offer to purchase, the warrant is transferred the transferee shall have the remainder of the one-year period or a period of six months, whichever is the longer, within which to surrender his warrant and accept payment.

"Sec. 3. Payments under section 2 of this Act shall be made out of any appropriated funds available to the Secretary of the Interior for expenditure by him."