### §77z–4. Data standards

#### (a) Requirement

The Commission shall, by rule, adopt data standards for all registration statements, and for all prospectuses included in registration statements, required to be filed with the Commission under this subchapter, except that the Commission may exempt exhibits, signatures, and certifications from those data standards.

#### (b) Consistency

The data standards required under subsection (a) shall incorporate, and ensure compatibility with (to the extent feasible), all applicable data standards established in the rules promulgated under section 5334 of title 12, including, to the extent practicable, by having the characteristics described in clauses (i) through (vi) of subsection (c)(1)(B) of such section 5334.

(May 27, 1933, ch. 38, title I, §29, as added Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LVIII, §5821(e), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3426.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section 5821(e) of Pub. L. 117–263 directed that this section be added at the end of title I of the Securities Act of 1933, which is classified to this subchapter. For purposes of codification, however, this section was added after section 77z–3 of this title and before Schedules A and B set out at section 77aa of this title.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rule of Construction—No New Disclosure Requirements

Enactment of section not to be construed to require certain additional information to be collected or disclosed, see section 5826 of Pub. L. 117–263, set out as a note under section 77g of this title.