### §20702. Establishment of grant program to develop, expand, and strengthen assistance programs for certain persons subject to trafficking

#### (a) Grant program

The Secretary of Health and Human Services may make grants to States, Indian tribes, units of local government, and nonprofit, nongovernmental victims' service organizations to establish, develop, expand, and strengthen assistance programs for United States citizens or aliens admitted for permanent residence who are the subject of sex trafficking or severe forms of trafficking in persons that occurs, in whole or in part, within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States.

#### (b) Selection factor

In selecting among applicants for grants under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall give priority to applicants with experience in the delivery of services to persons who have been subjected to sexual abuse or commercial sexual exploitation and to applicants who would employ survivors of sexual abuse or commercial sexual exploitation as a part of their proposed project.

#### (c) Limitation on Federal share

The Federal share of a grant made under this section may not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of the projects described in the application submitted.

#### (d) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated $8,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011 to carry out the activities described in this section.

(Pub. L. 109–164, title II, §202, Jan. 10, 2006, 119 Stat. 3569; Pub. L. 110–457, title III, §302(3), Dec. 23, 2008, 122 Stat. 5087; Pub. L. 113–4, title XII, §1241(a), Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 149.)

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 14044a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**2013**—Pub. L. 113–4 temporarily amended section generally, so as to consist of subsecs. (a) to (j) relating to grant programs to develop, expand, and strengthen assistance programs for certain persons subject to trafficking. See Effective and Termination Dates of 2013 Amendment note below.

**2008**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 110–457 substituted "$8,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011" for "$10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2006 and 2007".

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2013 Amendment

Pub. L. 113–4, title XII, §1241(b), Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 153, provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (a) \[amending this section\] shall be effective during the 4-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act \[March 7, 2013\]."