### §761. Emergency Management Assistance Compact grants

#### (a) In general

The Administrator may make grants to administer the Emergency Management Assistance Compact consented to by the Joint Resolution entitled "Joint Resolution granting the consent of Congress to the Emergency Management Assistance Compact" (Public Law 104–321; 110 Stat. 3877).

#### (b) Uses

A grant under this section shall be used—

(1) to carry out recommendations identified in the Emergency Management Assistance Compact after-action reports for the 2004 and 2005 hurricane season;

(2) to administer compact operations on behalf of all member States and territories;

(3) to continue coordination with the Agency and appropriate Federal agencies;

(4) to continue coordination with State, local, and tribal government entities and their respective national organizations; and

(5) to assist State and local governments, emergency response providers, and organizations representing such providers with credentialing emergency response providers and the typing of emergency response resources.

#### (c) Coordination

The Administrator shall consult with the Administrator of the Emergency Management Assistance Compact to ensure effective coordination of efforts in responding to requests for assistance.

#### (d) Authorization

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

(Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, §661, Oct. 4, 2006, 120 Stat. 1432; Pub. L. 115–254, div. D, §1217(b), Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3451.)

#### References in Text

The Joint Resolution entitled "Joint Resolution granting the consent of Congress to the Emergency Management Assistance Compact", referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 104–321, Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3877, which is not classified to the Code.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 115–254 substituted "for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022" for "for fiscal year 2008".