### §200104. Federal interagency council on outdoor recreation [1](#200103_1_target)

(a) Establishment.—The Secretary shall establish an interagency council, to be known as the "Federal Interagency Council on Outdoor Recreation".

(b) Composition.—

(1) In general.—The Council shall be composed of representatives of each of the following agencies, to be appointed by the head of the respective agency:

(A) The National Park Service.

(B) The Bureau of Land Management.

(C) The United States Fish and Wildlife Service.

(D) The Bureau of Indian Affairs.

(E) The Bureau of Reclamation.

(F) The Forest Service.

(G) The Army Corps of Engineers.

(H) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

  

(2) Additional participants.—In addition to the members of the Council appointed under paragraph (1), the Secretary may invite participation in the Council's meetings or other activities from representatives of the following:

(A) The Council on Environmental Quality.

(B) The Natural Resources Conservation Service.

(C) Rural development programs of the Department of Agriculture.

(D) The National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion.

(E) The Environmental Protection Agency.

(F) The Department of Transportation, including the Federal Highway Administration.

(G) The Tennessee Valley Authority.

(H) The Department of Commerce, including—

(i) the Bureau of Economic Analysis;

(ii) the National Travel and Tourism Office; and

(iii) the Economic Development Administration.

  

(I) The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

(J) An applicable State agency or office.

(K) An applicable agency or office of a local government.

(L) Other organizations or interests, as determined appropriate by the Secretary.

  

(3) State coordination.—In determining additional participants under this subsection, the Secretary shall seek to ensure that States are invited and represented in the Council's meetings or other activities.

(4) Leadership.—The leadership of the Council shall rotate every 2 years among the Council members appointed under paragraph (1), or as otherwise determined by the Secretary in consultation with the Secretaries of Agriculture, Defense, and Commerce.

(5) Funding.—Notwithstanding section 708 of title VII of division E of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117–328), the Council members appointed under paragraph (1) may enter into agreements to share the management and operational costs of the Council.

  

(c) Coordination.—The Council shall meet as frequently as appropriate for the purposes of coordinating on issues related to outdoor recreation, including—

(1) recreation programs and management policies across Federal land and water management agencies, including activities associated with the implementation of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6801 et seq.), as appropriate;

(2) the response by Federal land and water management agencies to public health emergencies or other emergencies, including those that result in disruptions to, or closures of, Federal recreational lands and waters;

(3) investments relating to outdoor recreation on Federal recreational lands and waters, including funds made available under section 40804(b)(7) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (16 U.S.C. 6592a(b)(7));

(4) management of emerging technologies on Federal recreational lands and waters;

(5) research activities, including quantifying the economic impacts of recreation;

(6) dissemination to the public of recreation-related information, in a manner that ensures the recreation-related information is easily accessible with modern communication devices;

(7) the improvement of access to Federal recreational lands and waters; and

(8) the identification and engagement of partners outside the Federal Government—

(A) to promote outdoor recreation;

(B) to facilitate collaborative management of outdoor recreation; and

(C) to provide additional resources relating to enhancing outdoor recreation opportunities; and

  

(9) any other outdoor recreation-related issues that the Council determines necessary.

  

(d) Effect.—Nothing in this section affects the authorities, regulations, or policies of any Federal agency described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b).

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3171; Pub. L. 118–234, title I, §113(b), Jan. 4, 2025, 138 Stat. 2840.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                  |
| ------------------ | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 200104             | 16 U.S.C. 460*l*–2.  | Pub. L. 88–29, §3, May 28, 1963, 77 Stat. 50. |

The word "department" is omitted as being included in "agency". The word "independent" is omitted as unnecessary.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 708 of title VII of division E of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, referred to in subsec. (b)(5), is section 708 of Pub. L. 117–328, div. E, title VII, Dec. 29, 2022, 136 Stat. 4706, which is not classified to the Code.

The Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is title VIII of div. J of Pub. L. 108–447, Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 3377, which is classified principally to chapter 87 (§6801 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of title VIII to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6801 of Title 16 and Tables.

#### Amendments

**2025**—Pub. L. 118–234 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to consultations of Secretary with administrative officers and execution of administrative responsibilities in conformity with nationwide plan.

[1 So in original. Probably should be capitalized as "Federal Interagency Council on Outdoor Recreation".](#200104_1)