### §200102. Definitions

As used in this chapter:

(1) Council.—The term "Council" means the Federal Interagency Council on Outdoor Recreation established under section 200104.

(2) Federal land and water management agency.—The term "Federal land and water management agency" means the National Park Service, Bureau of Land Management, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Reclamation, Forest Service, Corps of Engineers, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(3) Federal recreational lands and waters.—The term "Federal recreational lands and waters" has the meaning given the term in section 802 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6801) and also includes Federal lands and waters managed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Corps of Engineers, or National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(4) State.—The term "State", to the extent practicable, as determined by the Secretary, includes Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.

(5) United States.—The term "United States"—

(A) includes the District of Columbia; and

(B) to the extent practicable, as determined by the Secretary, includes Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3169; Pub. L. 118–234, title I, §113(a), Jan. 4, 2025, 138 Stat. 2839.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                 |
| ------------------ | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 200102             | 16 U.S.C. 460*l*–3.  | Pub. L. 88–29, §4, May 28, 1963, 77 Stat. 50; Pub. L. 96–205, title VI, §608(c), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 92. |

The words "the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands" are omitted as obsolete. See note at 48 U.S.C. prec. 1681. For continued application of certain laws of the United States in certain cases, see the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America (48 U.S.C. 1801 note), the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States of America and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia (48 U.S.C. 1901 note), and the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Palau (48 U.S.C. 1931 note). The words "as determined by the Secretary" are added to make it clear that it is the Secretary who determines if it is practicable to include the stated entities.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2025**—Pars. (1) to (5). Pub. L. 118–234 added pars. (1) to (3) and redesignated former pars. (1) and (2) as (4) and (5), respectively.