### §7320. More than thirty years: permanent professors and the Director of Admissions of the United States Military Academy

(a) The Secretary of the Army may retire an officer specified in subsection (b) who has more than 30 years of service as a commissioned officer.

(b) Subsection (a) applies in the case of the following officers:

(1) Any permanent professor of the United States Military Academy.

(2) The Director of Admissions of the United States Military Academy.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 226, §3920; Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title V, §509(a)(1), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 297; renumbered §7320, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(b)(12), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1838.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                            |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| 3920              | 10:1079a(c) (proviso). | Aug. 7, 1947, ch. 512, §520(c) (proviso), 61 Stat. 912. |

The word "retire" is substituted for the words "direct the retirement of". The words "as a commissioned officer" are substituted for the word "commissioned".

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7320 was renumbered section 8690 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 3920 of this title as this section.

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–106 substituted "permanent professors and the Director of Admissions of the United States Military Academy" for "permanent professors of United States Military Academy" in section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "The Secretary of the Army may retire any permanent professor of the United States Military Academy who has more than 30 years of service as a commissioned officer."

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.