### §7321. Mandatory retirement: Superintendent of the United States Military Academy; waiver authority

(a) Mandatory Retirement.—Upon the termination of the detail of an officer to the position of Superintendent of the United States Military Academy, the Secretary of the Army shall retire the officer under any provision of this chapter under which that officer is eligible to retire.

(b) Waiver Authority.—The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement in subsection (a) for good cause. In each case in which such a waiver is granted for an officer, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a written notification of the waiver, with a statement of the reasons supporting the decision that the officer not retire, and a written notification of the intent of the President to nominate the officer for reassignment.

(Added Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, §532(a)(1)(A), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 602, §3921; amended Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, §541(a)(1), (c)(1)(A), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 1902, 1903; renumbered §7321, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(b)(12), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1838.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7321 was renumbered section 8691 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 3921 of this title as this section.

**2004**—Pub. L. 108–375 inserted "; waiver authority" at end of section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Application of Section to Superintendents Serving on October 5, 1999

Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, §532(a)(5), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 604, provided that: "The amendments made by this subsection \[enacting this section and sections 4333a, 6371, 6951a, 8921, and 9333a of this title\] shall not apply to an officer serving on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 5, 1999\] in the position of Superintendent of the United States Military Academy, Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy, or Superintendent of the United States Air Force Academy for so long as that officer continues on and after that date to serve in that position without a break in service."