### §569. Mission need statement

(a) In General.—On the date on which the President submits to Congress a budget for fiscal year 2016 under section 1105 of title 31, on the date on which the President submits to Congress a budget for fiscal year 2019 under such section, and every 4 years thereafter, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate an integrated major acquisition mission need statement.

(b) Definitions.—In this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) Integrated major acquisition mission need statement.—The term "integrated major acquisition mission need statement" means a document that—

(A) identifies current and projected gaps in Coast Guard mission capabilities using mission hour targets;

(B) explains how each major acquisition program addresses gaps identified under subparagraph (A) if funded at the levels provided for such program in the most recently submitted capital investment plan; and

(C) describes the missions the Coast Guard will not be able to achieve, by fiscal year, for each gap identified under subparagraph (A).

  

(2) Major acquisition program.—The term "major acquisition program" has the meaning given that term in section 569a(e).

(3) Capital investment plan.—The term "capital investment plan" means the plan required under section 663(a)(1).

(Added Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, §402(a), Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 2940; amended Pub. L. 112–213, title II, §217(8), Dec. 20, 2012, 126 Stat. 1558; Pub. L. 113–281, title II, §215(a), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3034.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 569, act Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393, 63 Stat. 542, related to trial by civil authorities for offenses against United States, prior to repeal by act May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §§5, 14(v), 64 Stat. 145, 148, effective May 31, 1951.

#### Amendments

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–281 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to submission of report, not later than Dec. 31, 2011, to appropriate congressional committees on the employment during the preceding year by Coast Guard contractors of individuals who were Coast Guard officials in the previous 5-year period.

**2012**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 112–213 struck out "and annually thereafter," after "December 31, 2011,".