### §3311. Certificate of inspection required

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), a vessel subject to inspection under this part may not be operated without having on board a certificate of inspection issued under section 3309 of this title.

(b) The Secretary may direct the owner, charterer, managing operator, agent, master, or individual in charge of a vessel subject to inspection under this chapter and not having on board a certificate of inspection—

(1) to have the vessel proceed to mooring and remain there until a certificate of inspection is issued;

(2) to take immediate steps necessary for the safety of the vessel, individuals on board the vessel, or the environment; or

(3) to have the vessel proceed to a place to make repairs necessary to obtain a certificate of inspection.

(Pub. L. 98–89, Aug. 26, 1983, 97 Stat. 515; Pub. L. 98–498, title II, §211(b), Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2304.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------- |
| 3311              | 46:390c  46:395  46:399      |

Section 3311 prohibits the operation of a vessel subject to inspection without having on board a valid certificate of inspection.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–498 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), substituted "Except as provided in subsection (b), a vessel" for "A vessel", struck out "valid" before "certificate of inspection", and added subsec. (b).

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Apr. 15, 1984, see section 2(g)(1) of Pub. L. 98–89, set out as a note under section 3101 of this title.