### §101703. Cooperative management agreements

(a) In General.—To facilitate the administration of the System, the Secretary, under such terms and conditions as the Secretary considers advisable, may enter into an agreement with an eligible entity managing lands and waters located near a System unit to provide for cooperative management of either a System unit or the lands and waters located near a System unit to promote more effective and efficient management of a System unit. The Secretary may not transfer administration responsibilities for any System unit under this paragraph.[1](#101703_1_target)

(b) Provision of Goods and Services.—

(1) In general.—Under a cooperative management agreement, the Secretary may acquire by purchase, donation, or exchange from and provide to an eligible entity on a reimbursable basis goods and services to be used by the Secretary or the eligible entity in the cooperative management of land and waters.

(2) Retention of funds.—Reimbursements received under this section may be credited to the appropriation current at the time reimbursements are received.

  

(c) Co-location.—Under the cooperative management agreement, the Secretary and an eligible entity may co-locate in offices and facilities owned or leased by either party.

(d) Employees.—

(1) Assignment of employee.—The Secretary may arrange an assignment under section 3372 of title 5 of a Federal employee or an employee of an eligible entity as mutually agreed upon, for work on any Federal, State, local, or Tribal land.

(2) Extension of assignment.—The assignment provided in paragraph (1) may be extended for any period of time determined by the Secretary and the eligible entity to be mutually beneficial.

  

(e) Definitions.—In this section—

(1) Eligible entity.—The term "eligible entity" means a State or local entity or any political subdivision thereof, or an Indian Tribe or Tribal organization.

(2) Indian tribe.—The term "Indian Tribe" has the meaning given the term in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304(e)).

(3) State.—The term "State" means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and each territory of the United States.

(4) Tribal organization.—The term "Tribal organization" has the meaning given the term in section 4(l) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304(*1*)).

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3136; Pub. L. 118–234, title I, §152, Jan. 4, 2025, 138 Stat. 2867.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                           |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 101703             | 16 U.S.C. 1a–2 (matter before (a)). | Pub. L. 91–383, §3 (matter before (a)), Aug. 18, 1970, 84 Stat. 826.                                   |
|                    | 16 U.S.C. 1a–2(*l*).                | Pub. L. 91–383, §3(*l*), as added Pub. L. 105–391, title VIII, §802(a), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3523. |

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2025**—Pub. L. 118–234 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to cooperative management agreements.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Authorizing Cooperative Management Agreements Between the District of Columbia and the Secretary of the Interior

Pub. L. 116–9, title II, §2403, Mar. 12, 2019, 133 Stat. 747, provided that: "The Secretary \[of the Interior\] may enter into a cooperative management agreement with the District of Columbia in accordance with section 101703 of title 54, United States Code."

[1 So in original. Probably should be "this subsection".](#101703_1)