### §10001. Definitions

Except as otherwise provided, in this chapter:

#### (1) Appropriate congressional committees

The term "appropriate congressional committees" means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and

(D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

#### (2) International financial institutions

The term "international financial institutions" means—

(A) the International Monetary Fund;

(B) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development;

(C) the International Development Association;

(D) the International Finance Corporation;

(E) the Inter-American Development Bank;

(F) the Asian Development Bank;

(G) the Inter-American Investment Corporation;

(H) the African Development Bank;

(I) the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development;

(J) the Multilateral Investment Guaranty Agency; and

(K) any multilateral financial institution, established after January 1, 2021, that could provide financial assistance to the Government of Sudan.

#### (3) Sovereignty Council

The term "Sovereignty Council" means the governing body of Sudan during the transitional period that consists of—

(A) 5 civilians selected by the Forces of Freedom and Change;

(B) 5 members selected by the Transitional Military Council; and

(C) 1 member selected by agreement between the Forces of Freedom and Change and the Transitional Military Council.

#### (4) Sudanese security and intelligence services

The term "Sudanese security and intelligence services" means—

(A) the Sudan Armed Forces;

(B) the Rapid Support Forces,[1](#10001_1_target)

(C) Sudan's Popular Defense Forces and other paramilitary units;

(D) Sudan's police forces;

(E) the General Intelligence Service, previously known as the National Intelligence and Security Services; and

(F) related entities, such as Sudan's Military Industry Corporation.

#### (5) Transitional period

The term "transitional period" means the 39-month period beginning on August 17, 2019 (the date of the signing of Sudan's constitutional charter), during which—

(A) the members of the Sovereignty Council described in paragraph (3)(B) select a chair of the Council for the first 21 months of the period; and

(B) the members of the Sovereignty Council described in paragraph (3)(A) select a chair of the Council for the remaining 18 months of the period.

(Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XII, §1262, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3967.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this subtitle", meaning subtitle G (§§1261–1270E) of title XII of div. A of Pub. L. 116–283, known as the Sudan Democratic Transition, Accountability, and Fiscal Transparency Act of 2020, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XII, §1261, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3967, provided that: "This subtitle \[subtitle G (§§1261–1270E) of title XII of div. A of Pub. L. 116–283, enacting this chapter and amending and repealing provisions set out as notes under section 1701 of Title 50, War and National Defense\] may be cited as the 'Sudan Democratic Transition, Accountability, and Fiscal Transparency Act of 2020'."

[1 So in original. The comma probably should be a semicolon.](#10001_1)