### §7231e. Priority

In awarding grants under this part, the Secretary shall give priority to applicants that—

(1) demonstrate the greatest need for assistance, based on the expense or difficulty of effectively carrying out approved desegregation plans and the magnet school program for which the grant is sought;

(2) propose to—

(A) carry out a new, evidence-based magnet school program;

(B) significantly revise an existing magnet school program, using evidence-based methods and practices, as available; or

(C) replicate an existing magnet school program that has a demonstrated record of success in increasing student academic achievement and reducing isolation of minority groups;

  

(3) propose to select students to attend magnet school programs by methods such as lottery, rather than through academic examination; and

(4) propose to increase racial integration by taking into account socioeconomic diversity in designing and implementing magnet school programs.

(Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, §4406, formerly title V, §5306, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, §501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1809; renumbered title IV, §4406, and amended Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, §§4001(b)(3)(A), (B), (D)(i), 4401(3), Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 1967, 2014.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 4406 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 3126 of this title, prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 89–10 by Pub. L. 103–382.

#### Amendments

**2015**—Pars. (2) to (4). Pub. L. 114–95, §4401(3), added pars. (2) to (4) and struck out former pars. (2) and (3) which read as follows:

"(2) propose to carry out new magnet school programs, or significantly revise existing magnet school programs; and

"(3) propose to select students to attend magnet school programs by methods such as lottery, rather than through academic examination."

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–95 effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95, set out as a note under section 6301 of this title.