### §4971. Establishment of loan guarantee program

(a) Establishment.—In order to meet the national security objectives in section 4811(a) [1](#4971_1_target) of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a program under which the Secretary may issue guarantees assuring a lender against losses of principal or interest, or both principal and interest, arising out of the financing of the sale or long-term lease of defense articles, defense services, or design and construction services to a country referred to in subsection (b).

(b) Covered Countries.—The authority under subsection (a) applies with respect to the following countries:

(1) A member nation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).

(2) A country designated as of March 31, 1995, as a major non-NATO ally pursuant to section 2350a(i)(3) of this title, as in effect on that date.

(3) A country in Central Europe that, as determined by the Secretary of State—

(A) has changed its form of national government from a nondemocratic form of government to a democratic form of government since October 1, 1989; or

(B) is in the process of changing its form of national government from a nondemocratic form of government to a democratic form of government.

  

(4) A noncommunist country that was a member nation of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) as of October 31, 1993.

  

(c) Authority Subject to Provisions of Appropriations.—The Secretary may guarantee a loan under this subchapter only to such extent or in such amounts as may be provided in advance in appropriations Acts.

(Added Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XIII, §1321(a)(1), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 475, §2540; amended Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title X, §1084(d)(21), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2062; renumbered §4971 and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1873(b), (c)(1), 1883(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4290, 4294.)

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

[1 Reference reflects amendment made by section 1883(b)(2) of Pub. L. 116–283.](#4971_1)