### §9449. Cadets: organization; service; instruction

(a) A cadet shall perform duties at such places and of such type as the President may direct.

(b) The course of instruction at the Academy is four years.

(c) The Secretary of the Air Force shall so arrange the course of studies at the Academy that cadets are not required to pursue their studies on Sunday.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 566, §9349; renumbered §9449, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(a)(3), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1832; amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §923(d)(12), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3815.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 9349(a)           | 10:1102.             | R.S. 1322.                                                                                         |
| 9349(b)           | 10:1043.             | R.S. 1323.                                                                                         |
| 9349(c)  9349(d)  | 10:1044.  10:1105.   | Mar. 30, 1920, ch. 112 (1st par., less provisos, under "Miscellaneous"), 41 Stat. 548.  R.S. 1324. |

In subsection (a), the word "commissioned" is inserted for clarity. 10:1105 (2d sentence) is omitted as obsolete.

In subsection (b), the word "perform" is substituted for the words "be subject at all times to do". The words "of such type" are substituted for the words "on such service".

In subsection (e), the words "members of the Air Force" are substituted for the words "private soldier, noncommissioned officer, and officer". The words "taught and" are omitted as surplusage. 10:1105 (less 1st 18 words of last sentence) is omitted as inapplicable to the Air Force.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 116–283 struck out subsec. (d) which read as follows: "Cadets shall be trained in the duties of members of the Air Force."

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 9349 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.