### §9060. Administration and enforcement

#### (a) In general

The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to address administrative and enforcement issues involved in carrying out dairy margin coverage.

#### (b) Reconstitution

The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to prohibit a dairy producer from reconstituting a dairy operation for the purpose of the dairy producer receiving dairy margin coverage payments.

#### (c) Administrative appeals

Using authorities under section 1308(h) of this title and subtitle H of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act (7 U.S.C. 6991 et seq.), the Secretary shall promulgate regulations to provide for administrative appeals of decisions of the Secretary that are adverse to participants of dairy margin coverage.

(Pub. L. 113–79, title I, §1410, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 693; Pub. L. 115–334, title I, §1401(k)(10), Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 4518.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act, referred to in subsec. (c), probably means the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 which is title II of Pub. L. 103–354, Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3209. Subtitle H of the Act is classified principally to subchapter VIII (§6991 et seq.) of chapter 98 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 1410 of Pub. L. 113–79. Subsec. (d) of section 1410 of Pub. L. 113–79 amended section 7253 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–334, §1401(k)(10)(A), substituted "dairy margin coverage" for "the margin protection program".

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 115–334, §1401(k)(10)(B), substituted "dairy margin coverage payments" for "margin protection payments".

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 115–334, §1401(k)(10)(A), substituted "dairy margin coverage" for "the margin protection program".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–334 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, see section 1401(m) of Pub. L. 115–334, set out as a note under section 9051 of this title.