### §626. Relationship to other laws

#### (a) Other Federal laws

Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to supersede, amend, alter, or affect any Federal law that—

(1) regulates (including by requiring information to be submitted or made available) the manufacture, distribution in commerce, use, handling, sale, other treatment, or disposal of chemical substances or mixtures; or

(2) authorizes or requires the disclosure of any record or information obtained from a chemical facility under any law other than this subchapter.

#### (b) States and political subdivisions

This subchapter shall not preclude or deny any right of any State or political subdivision thereof to adopt or enforce any regulation, requirement, or standard of performance with respect to chemical facility security that is more stringent than a regulation, requirement, or standard of performance issued under this section, or otherwise impair any right or jurisdiction of any State with respect to chemical facilities within that State, unless there is an actual conflict between this section and the law of that State.

(Pub. L. 107–296, title XXI, §2106, as added Pub. L. 113–254, §2(a), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 2915.)

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by section 5 of Pub. L. 113–254, see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

#### Effective and Termination Dates

Section effective on the date that is 30 days after Dec. 18, 2014, and authority provided under this section to terminate on the date that is 5 years and 3 months after such effective date, see sections 4(a) and 5 of Pub. L. 113–254, set out as notes under section 621 of this title.