### §628. Small covered chemical facilities

#### (a) Definition

In this section, the term "small covered chemical facility" means a covered chemical facility that—

(1) has fewer than 100 employees employed at the covered chemical facility; and

(2) is owned and operated by a small business concern (as defined in section 632 of title 15).

#### (b) Assistance to facilities

The Secretary may provide guidance and, as appropriate, tools, methodologies, or computer software, to assist small covered chemical facilities in developing the physical security, cybersecurity, recordkeeping, and reporting procedures required under this subchapter.

#### (c) Report

The Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on best practices that may assist small covered chemical facilities in development of physical security best practices.

(Pub. L. 107–296, title XXI, §2108, as added Pub. L. 113–254, §2(a), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 2916.)

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by section 5 of Pub. L. 113–254, see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

#### Effective and Termination Dates

Section effective on the date that is 30 days after Dec. 18, 2014, and authority provided under this section to terminate on the date that is 5 years and 3 months after such effective date, see sections 4(a) and 5 of Pub. L. 113–254, set out as notes under section 621 of this title.