### §303903. Preservation education and training program

The Secretary, in consultation with the Council and other appropriate Federal, tribal, Native Hawaiian, and non-Federal organizations, shall develop and implement a comprehensive preservation education and training program. The program shall include—

(1) standards and increased preservation training opportunities for Federal workers involved in preservation-related functions;

(2) preservation training opportunities for other Federal, State, tribal and local government workers, and students;

(3) technical or financial assistance, or both, to historically black colleges and universities, to tribal colleges, and to colleges with a high enrollment of Native Americans or Native Hawaiians, to establish preservation training and degree programs; and

(4) where appropriate, coordination with the National Center for Preservation Technology and Training of—

(A) distribution of information on preservation technologies;

(B) provision of training and skill development in trades, crafts, and disciplines related to historic preservation in Federal training and development programs; and

(C) support for research, analysis, conservation, curation, interpretation, and display related to preservation.

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3208.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                |
| ------------------ | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 303903             | 16 U.S.C. 470a(j).   | Pub. L. 89–665, title I, §101(j), as added Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, §4008, Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4758. |

In paragraph (1), the word "new" is omitted as unnecessary.

In paragraph (2), the word "increased" is omitted as unnecessary.