### §4901. Requirement for prior authorization of appropriations

Amounts may be appropriated to or for the use of the Coast Guard for the following matters only if the amounts have been authorized by law after December 31, 1976:

(1) For the operation and maintenance of the Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for.

(2) For the acquisition, construction, renovation, and improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels, aircraft, and systems, including equipment related thereto, and for maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment.

(3) For the Coast Guard Reserve program, including operations and maintenance of the program, personnel and training costs, equipment, and services.

(4) For the environmental compliance and restoration functions of the Coast Guard under section 318 of this title.

(5) For research, development, test, and evaluation of technologies, materials, and human factors directly related to improving the performance of the Coast Guard.

(6) For alteration or removal of bridges over navigable waters of the United States constituting obstructions to navigation, and for personnel and administrative costs associated with the Alteration of Bridges Program.

(Added Pub. L. 97–295, §2(20)(A), Oct. 12, 1982, 96 Stat. 1303, §662; amended Pub. L. 101–225, title II, §222(c), Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat. 1919; Pub. L. 111–259, title IV, §442(2), Oct. 7, 2010, 124 Stat. 2733; renumbered §2701 and amended Pub. L. 114–120, title I, §101(b), Feb. 8, 2016, 130 Stat. 30; Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, §3538(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2322; renumbered §4901 and amended Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §§121(b), 123(c)(5)(A), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4238, 4241.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 662               | 14:656(note).        | Sept. 10, 1976, Pub. L. 94–406, §5, 90 Stat. 1236. |

The word "Amounts" is substituted for "funds" for clarity and consistency. Before clause (1), the words "After fiscal year 1977" are omitted as executed. The words "of such funds" are omitted as unnecessary. In clause (2), the words "aids, establishments, vessels, or aircraft" are substituted for "thereto" for clarity. In clause (4), the words "a matter referred to in clauses (1)–(3)" are substituted for "any of the above" for clarity.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, §121(b), renumbered section 2701 of this title as this section.

Par. (2). Pub. L. 115–232 substituted "aircraft, and systems" for "and aircraft".

Par. (4). Pub. L. 115–282, §123(c)(5)(A), substituted "section 318" for "chapter 19".

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–120, §101(b)(1), (2), renumbered section 662 of this title as this section.

Pars. (1) to (6). Pub. L. 114–120, §101(b)(3), added pars. (1) to (6) and struck out former pars. (1) to (5) which read as follows:

"(1) For the operation and maintenance of the Coast Guard.

"(2) For the acquisition, construction, rebuilding, and improvement of aids to navigation, shore or offshore establishments, vessels, or aircraft, including equipment related to the aids, establishments, vessels, or aircraft.

"(3) For altering obstructive bridges.

"(4) For research, development, test, or evaluation related to intelligence systems and capabilities or a matter referred to in clauses (1)–(3).

"(5) For environmental compliance and restoration at Coast Guard facilities."

**2010**—Par. (4). Pub. L. 111–259 inserted "intelligence systems and capabilities or" after "related to".

**1989**—Par. (5). Pub. L. 101–225 added par. (5).