### §379j–73. Reauthorization; reporting requirements

#### (a) Performance report

Beginning with fiscal year 2021, and not later than 120 calendar days after the end of each fiscal year thereafter for which fees are collected under this subpart, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report concerning the progress of the Food and Drug Administration in achieving the goals identified in the letters described in section 3861(b) [1](#379j-73_1_target) of the CARES Act during such fiscal year and the future plans of the Food and Drug Administration for meeting such goals.

#### (b) Fiscal report

Not later than 120 calendar days after the end of fiscal year 2021 and each subsequent fiscal year for which fees are collected under this subpart, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report on the implementation of the authority for such fees during such fiscal year and the use, by the Food and Drug Administration, of the fees collected for such fiscal year.

#### (c) Public availability

The Secretary shall make the reports required under subsections (a) and (b) available to the public on the internet website of the Food and Drug Administration.

#### (d) Reauthorization

#### (1) Consultation

In developing recommendations to present to the Congress with respect to the goals described in subsection (a), and plans for meeting the goals, for OTC monograph drug activities for the first 5 fiscal years after fiscal year 2025, and for the reauthorization of this subpart for such fiscal years, the Secretary shall consult with—

(A) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives;

(B) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;

(C) scientific and academic experts;

(D) health care professionals;

(E) representatives of patient and consumer advocacy groups; and

(F) the regulated industry.

#### (2) Public review of recommendations

After negotiations with the regulated industry, the Secretary shall—

(A) present the recommendations developed under paragraph (1) to the congressional committees specified in such paragraph;

(B) publish such recommendations in the Federal Register;

(C) provide for a period of 30 calendar days for the public to provide written comments on such recommendations;

(D) hold a meeting at which the public may present its views on such recommendations; and

(E) after consideration of such public views and comments, revise such recommendations as necessary.

#### (3) Transmittal of recommendations

Not later than January 15, 2025, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress the revised recommendations under paragraph (2), a summary of the views and comments received under such paragraph, and any changes made to the recommendations in response to such views and comments.

(June 25, 1938, ch. 675, §744N, as added Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title III, §3862, Mar. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 468.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 3861(b) of the CARES Act, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means section 3861 of Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title III, Mar. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 458, which is set out as a note under section 379j–71 of this title. Section 3861 of Pub. L. 116–136 does not contain subsecs.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#379j-73_1)