### §1531. Establishment of drug-free communities support program

#### (a) Establishment

The Director shall establish a program to support communities in the development and implementation of comprehensive, long-term plans and programs to prevent and treat substance use and misuse among youth.

#### (b) Program

In carrying out the Program, the Director shall—

(1) make and track grants to grant recipients;

(2) provide for technical assistance and training, data collection, and dissemination of information on state-of-the-art practices that the Director determines to be effective in reducing substance use and misuse; and

(3) provide for the general administration of the Program.

#### (c) Administration

Not later than 30 days after receiving recommendations from the Advisory Commission under section 1542(a)(1) [1](#1531_1_target) of this title, the Director shall appoint an Administrator to carry out the Program.

#### (d) Contracting

The Director may employ any necessary staff and may enter into contracts or agreements with national drug control agencies, including interagency agreements to delegate authority for the execution of grants and for such other activities necessary to carry out this subchapter.

(Pub. L. 100–690, title I, §1031, as added Pub. L. 105–20, §2(a)(2), June 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 226; amended Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, §8203(b)(4)(A), Oct. 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 4111.)

#### References in Text

Section 1542(a)(1) of this title, referred to in subsec. (c), was repealed by Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, §8203(b)(5), Oct. 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 4112.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsecs. (a), (b)(2). Pub. L. 115–271, which directed substitution of "substance use and misuse" for "substance abuse" wherever appearing in subchapter I of "chapter 2 of subtitle A of title I of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988", was executed throughout part A of this subchapter, which is subchapter I of chapter 2 of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. The National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988 is itself subtitle A of title I of Pub. L. 100–690.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#1531_1)