### §923. Art. 123. Forgery

Any person subject to this chapter who, with intent to defraud—

(1) falsely makes or alters any signature to, or any part of, any writing which would, if genuine, apparently impose a legal liability on another or change his legal right or liability to his prejudice; or

(2) utters, offers, issues, or transfers such a writing, known by him to be so made or altered;

  

is guilty of forgery and shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 74.)

#### Transfer and Enactment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §§5401(12), 5436, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2939, 2952, 2967, provided that, effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is redesignated and transferred to become section 905 of this title (article 105), and a new section 923 (article 123) is enacted. For text of new section 923 after the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 923               | 50:717.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 123), 64 Stat. 141. |

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Transfer of current section and enactment of new section 923 by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.