### §882. Art. 82. Solicitation

(a) Any person subject to this chapter who solicits or advises another or others to desert in violation of section 885 of this title (article 85) or mutiny in violation of section 894 of this title (article 94) shall, if the offense solicited or advised is attempted or committed, be punished with the punishment provided for the commission of the offense, but, if the offense solicited or advised is not committed or attempted, he shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(b) Any person subject to this chapter who solicits or advises another or others to commit an act of misbehavior before the enemy in violation of section 899 of this title (article 99) or sedition in violation of section 894 of this title (article 94) shall, if the offense solicited or advised is committed, be punished with the punishment provided for the commission of the offense, but, if the offense solicited or advised is not committed, he shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 66; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5403, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2939.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5403, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2939, 2967, provided that, effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is generally amended. See 2016 Amendment note below. For text of this section after amendment on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 882(a)  882(b)    | 50:676(a).  50:676(b). | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1, (Art. 82), 64 Stat. 134. |

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to solicitation of desertion, mutiny, misbehavior before the enemy, or sedition.

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.