### §890. Art. 90. Assaulting or willfully disobeying superior commissioned officer

Any person subject to this chapter who—

(1) strikes his superior commissioned officer or draws or lifts up any weapon or offers any violence against him while he is in the execution of his office; or

(2) willfully disobeys a lawful command of his superior commissioned officer;

  

shall be punished, if the offense is committed in time of war, by death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct, and if the offense is committed at any other time, by such punishment, other than death, as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 68; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5409, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2942.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5409, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2942, 2967, and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, Mar. 1, 2018, 83 F.R. 9889, provided that, except as otherwise provided, effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is generally amended. See 2016 Amendment note below. For text of this section after amendment on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 890               | 50:684.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 90), 64 Stat. 135. |

The word "commissioned" is inserted for clarity.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to the offense of assaulting or willfully disobeying a superior commissioned officer.

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.