### §879. Art. 79. Conviction of offense charged, lesser included offenses, and attempts

(a) In General.—An accused may be found guilty of any of the following:

(1) The offense charged.

(2) A lesser included offense.

(3) An attempt to commit the offense charged.

(4) An attempt to commit a lesser included offense, if the attempt is an offense in its own right.

  

(b) Lesser Included Offense Defined.—In this section (article), the term "lesser included offense" means—

(1) an offense that is necessarily included in the offense charged; and

(2) any lesser included offense so designated by regulation prescribed by the President.

  

(c) Regulatory Authority.—Any designation of a lesser included offense in a regulation referred to in subsection (b) shall be reasonably included in the greater offense.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 65; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5402, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2939.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 879               | 50:673.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 79), 64 Stat. 134. |

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "An accused may be found guilty of an offense necessarily included in the offense charged or of an attempt to commit either the offense charged or an offense necessarily included therein."

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.