### §907. Art. 107. False official statements

Any person subject to this chapter who, with intent to deceive, signs any false record, return, regulation, order, or other official document, knowing it to be false, or makes any other false official statement knowing it to be false, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 71; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5419, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2946.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5419, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2946, 2967, provided that, effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is generally amended. See 2016 Amendment note below. For text of this section after amendment on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 907               | 50:701.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 107), 64 Stat. 138. |

The word "it" is substituted for the words "the same".

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "Any person subject to this chapter who, with intent to deceive, signs any false record, return, regulation, order, or other official document, knowing it to be false, or makes any other false official statement knowing it to be false, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct."

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.