### §911. Art. 111. Leaving scene of vehicle accident

(a) Driver.—Any person subject to this chapter—

(1) who is the driver of a vehicle that is involved in an accident that results in personal injury or property damage; and

(2) who wrongfully leaves the scene of the accident—

(A) without providing assistance to an injured person; or

(B) without providing personal identification to others involved in the accident or to appropriate authorities;

  

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(b) Senior Passenger.—Any person subject to this chapter—

(1) who is a passenger in a vehicle that is involved in an accident that results in personal injury or property damage;

(2) who is the superior commissioned or noncommissioned officer of the driver of the vehicle or is the commander of the vehicle; and

(3) who wrongfully and unlawfully orders, causes, or permits the driver to leave the scene of the accident—

(A) without providing assistance to an injured person; or

(B) without providing personal identification to others involved in the accident or to appropriate authorities;

  

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Added Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5423, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2947.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 911 was renumbered section 913 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.