### §932. Art. 132. Frauds against the United States

Any person subject to this chapter—

(1) who, knowing it to be false or fraudulent—

(A) makes any claim against the United States or any officer thereof; or

(B) presents to any person in the civil or military service thereof, for approval or payment, any claim against the United States or any officer thereof;

  

(2) who, for the purpose of obtaining the approval, allowance, or payment of any claim against the United States or any officer thereof—

(A) makes or uses any writing or other paper knowing it to contain any false or fraudulent statements;

(B) makes any oath to any fact or to any writing or other paper knowing the oath to be false; or

(C) forges or counterfeits any signature upon any writing or other paper, or uses any such signature knowing it to be forged or counterfeited;

  

(3) who, having charge, possession, custody or control of any money, or other property of the United States, furnished or intended for the armed forces thereof, knowingly delivers to any person having authority to receive it, any amount thereof less than that for which he receives a certificate or receipt; or

(4) who, being authorized to make or deliver any paper certifying the receipt of any property of the United States furnished or intended for the armed forces thereof, makes or delivers to any person such writing without having full knowledge of the truth of the statements therein contained and with intent to defraud the United States;

  

shall, upon conviction, be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 75.)

#### Transfer, Enactment, and Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(c)(1)(Q), (4), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1599, provided that, effective immediately after the redesignation and transfer of this section and enactment of a new section 932 (article 132) by section 5401(14) of Pub. L. 114–328, see below, takes effect as provided for in section 5542 of that Act, subsection (b)(2) of this section is amended by striking "section 1034(h)" and inserting "section 1034(j)". See 2017 Amendment note below. For text of subsection (b)(2) after enactment of new section 932 by Pub. L. 114–328 on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §§5401(14), 5450, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2939, 2957, 2967, and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, Mar. 1, 2018, 83 F.R. 9889, provided that, except as otherwise provided, effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is redesignated and transferred to become section 924 of this title (article 124), and a new section 932 (article 132) is enacted. For text of new section 932 on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 932               | 50:726.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 132), 64 Stat. 142. |

The word "it" is substituted for the words "the same" throughout the revised section.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 115–91 substituted "section 1034(j)" for "section 1034(h)".

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–91 effective immediately after the amendments made by div. E (§§5001–5542) of Pub. L. 114–328 take effect as provided for in section 5542 of that Act (10 U.S.C. 801 note), see section 1081(c)(4) of Pub. L. 115–91, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Transfer of current section and enactment of new section 932 by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.