### §884. Art. 84. Unlawful enlistment, appointment, or separation

Any person subject to this chapter who effects an enlistment or appointment in or a separation from the armed forces of any person who is known to him to be ineligible for that enlistment, appointment, or separation because it is prohibited by law, regulation, or order shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 66.)

#### Transfer and Enactment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §§5401(1), 5405, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2938, 2940, 2967, provided that, effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is redesignated and transferred to become section 904b of this title (article 104b), and a new section 884 (article 84) is enacted. For text of new section 884 after the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 884               | 50:678.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 84), 64 Stat. 135. |

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Transfer of current section and enactment of new section 884 by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.