### §898. Art. 98. Noncompliance with procedural rules

Any person subject to this chapter who—

(1) is responsible for unnecessary delay in the disposition of any case of a person accused of an offense under this chapter; or

(2) knowingly and intentionally fails to enforce or comply with any provision of this chapter regulating the proceedings before, during, or after trial of an accused;

  

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 69.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5401(3), (6), title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2938, 2967, and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, Mar. 1, 2018, 83 F.R. 9889, provided that, except as otherwise provided, effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is redesignated and transferred to become section 931f of this title (article 131f), and section 905 of this title (article 105) is redesignated and transferred to become this section. See Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 898               | 50:692.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 98), 64 Stat. 137. |

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Transfers by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.