### §915. Art. 115. Communicating threats

(a) Communicating Threats Generally.—Any person subject to this chapter who wrongfully communicates a threat to injure the person, property, or reputation of another shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(b) Communicating Threat to Use Explosive, etc.—Any person subject to this chapter who wrongfully communicates a threat to injure the person or property of another by use of (1) an explosive, (2) a weapon of mass destruction, (3) a biological or chemical agent, substance, or weapon, or (4) a hazardous material, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(c) Communicating False Threat Concerning Use of Explosive, etc.—Any person subject to this chapter who maliciously communicates a false threat concerning injury to the person or property of another by use of (1) an explosive, (2) a weapon of mass destruction, (3) a biological or chemical agent, substance, or weapon, or (4) a hazardous material, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct. As used in the preceding sentence, the term "false threat" means a threat that, at the time the threat is communicated, is known to be false by the person communicating the threat.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 72; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5427, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2948.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 915               | 50:709.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 115), 64 Stat. 139. |

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to the offense of malingering. See section 883 of this title.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.