### §910. Art. 110. Improper hazarding of vessel

(a) Any person subject to this chapter who willfully and wrongfully hazards or suffers to be hazarded any vessel of the armed forces shall suffer death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct.

(b) Any person subject to this chapter who negligently hazards or suffers to be hazarded any vessel of the armed forces shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 71; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5422, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2947.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5422, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2947, 2967, provided that, effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is generally amended. See 2016 Amendment note below. For text of this section after amendment on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 910(a)  910(b)    | 50:704(a).  50:704(b). | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 110), 64 Stat. 139. |

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

"(a) Any person subject to this chapter who willfully and wrongfully hazards or suffers to be hazarded any vessel of the armed forces shall suffer death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct.

"(b) Any person subject to this chapter who negligently hazards or suffers to be hazarded any vessel of the armed forces shall be punished as a court-martial may direct."

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.