### §895. Art. 95. Resistance, flight, breach of arrest, and escape

Any person subject to this chapter who—

(1) resists apprehension;

(2) flees from apprehension;

(3) breaks arrest; or

(4) escapes from custody or confinement;

  

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 69; Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XI, §1112(a), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 461.)

#### Transfer and Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §§5401(2), (8), 5411, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2938, 2943, 2967, provided that, effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is redesignated and transferred to become section 887a of this title (article 87a), and section 913 of this title (article 113) is redesignated and transferred to become this section and subsequently amended generally. For text of section 895 after such transfer and general amendment on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 895               | 50:689.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 95), 64 Stat. 136. |

#### Amendments

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–106 inserted "flight," after "Resistance," in section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "Any person subject to this chapter who resists apprehension or breaks arrest or who escapes from custody or confinement shall be punished as a court-martial may direct."

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Transfers and amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.