### §913. Art. 113. Misbehavior of sentinel

Any sentinel or look-out who is found drunk or sleeping upon his post, or leaves it before he is regularly relieved, shall be punished, if the offense is committed in time of war, by death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct, but if the offense is committed at any other time, by such punishment other than death as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 72.)

#### Transfer and Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §§5401(8), (9), 5425, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2938, 2939, 2948, 2967, provided that, effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is redesignated and transferred to become section 895 of this title (article 95), and section 911 of this title (article 111) is redesignated and transferred to become this section and further amended. For text of section 913 after such transfer and amendment on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 913               | 50:707.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 113), 64 Stat. 139. |

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Transfers and amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.