### §889. Art. 89. Disrespect toward superior commissioned officer; assault of superior commissioned officer

(a) Disrespect.—Any person subject to this chapter who behaves with disrespect toward that person's superior commissioned officer shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(b) Assault.—Any person subject to this chapter who strikes that person's superior commissioned officer or draws or lifts up any weapon or offers any violence against that officer while the officer is in the execution of the officer's office shall be punished—

(1) if the offense is committed in time of war, by death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct; and

(2) if the offense is committed at any other time, by such punishment, other than death, as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 67; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5408, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2941.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 889               | 50:683.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 89), 64 Stat. 135. |

The word "commissioned" is inserted for clarity.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in subsec. (b) of this section were contained in section 890 of this title, prior to amendment by Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5409, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2942.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "Any person subject to this chapter who behaves with disrespect toward his superior commissioned officer shall be punished as a court-martial may direct."

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.