### §914. Art. 114. Endangerment offenses

(a) Reckless Endangerment.—Any person subject to this chapter who engages in conduct that—

(1) is wrongful and reckless or is wanton; and

(2) is likely to produce death or grievous bodily harm to another person;

  

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(b) Dueling.—Any person subject to this chapter—

(1) who fights or promotes, or is concerned in or connives at fighting, a duel; or

(2) who, having knowledge of a challenge sent or about to be sent, fails to report the facts promptly to the proper authority;

  

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(c) Firearm Discharge, Endangering Human Life.—Any person subject to this chapter who, willfully and wrongly, discharges a firearm, under circumstances such as to endanger human life shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(d) Carrying Concealed Weapon.—Any person subject to this chapter who unlawfully carries a dangerous weapon concealed on or about his person shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 72; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5426, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2948.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 914               | 50:708.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 114), 64 Stat. 139. |

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "Any person subject to this chapter who fights or promotes, or is concerned in or connives at fighting a duel, or who, having knowledge of a challenge sent or about to be sent, fails to report the facts promptly to the proper authority, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct."

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.