### §905. Art. 105. Misconduct as prisoner

Any person subject to this chapter who, while in the hands of the enemy in time of war—

(1) for the purpose of securing favorable treatment by his captors acts without proper authority in a manner contrary to law, custom, or regulation, to the detriment of others of whatever nationality held by the enemy as civilian or military prisoners; or

(2) while in a position of authority over such persons maltreats them without justifiable cause;

  

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 71.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5401(6), (12), title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2938, 2939, 2967, provided that, effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is redesignated and transferred to become section 898 of this title (article 98), and section 923 of this title (article 123) is redesignated and transferred to become this section. See Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 905               | 50:699.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 105), 64 Stat. 138. |

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Transfers by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.