### §896. Art. 96. Releasing prisoner without proper authority

Any person subject to this chapter who, without proper authority, releases any prisoner committed to his charge, or who through neglect or design suffers any such prisoner to escape, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct, whether or not the prisoner was committed in strict compliance with law.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 69; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5413, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2944.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5413, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2944, 2967, provided that, effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is generally amended. See 2016 Amendment note below. For text of this section after amendment on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                      |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 896               | 50:690.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 96), 64 Stat. 136. |

The words "whether or not the prisoner was committed in strict compliance with law" are substituted for the word "duly", to reflect the long standing construction expressed in the Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, 1951, par. 175a.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "Any person subject to this chapter who, without proper authority, releases any prisoner committed to his charge, or who through neglect or design suffers any such prisoner to escape, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct, whether or not the prisoner was committed in strict compliance with law."

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.