### §926. Art. 126. Arson

(a) Any person subject to this chapter who willfully and maliciously burns or sets on fire an inhabited dwelling, or any other structure, movable or immovable, wherein to the knowledge of the offender there is at the time a human being, is guilty of aggravated arson and shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(b) Any person subject to this chapter who willfully and maliciously burns or sets fire to the property of another, except as provided in subsection (a), is guilty of simple arson and shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 74; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5440, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2953.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, §5440, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2953, 2967, and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, Mar. 1, 2018, 83 F.R. 9889, provided that, except as otherwise provided, effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, this section is generally amended. See 2016 Amendment note below. For text of this section after amendment on the effective date, see Amendment of Analysis and Subchapter note preceding section 877 of this title.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 926(a)  926(b)    | 50:720(a).  50:720(b). | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 126), 64 Stat. 141. |

In subsection (b), the words "of this section" are omitted as surplusage.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to the offenses of aggravated arson and simple arson.

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.