### §4335. Shipment of relief supplies; definitions

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, it shall be lawful, at any time after the date of cessation of hostilities with any country with which the United States is at war, for any person in the United States to donate, or otherwise dispose of to, and to transport or deliver to, any person in such country any article or articles (including food, clothing, and medicine) intended to be used solely to relieve human suffering.

(b) As used in this section—

(1) the term "person" means any individual, partnership, association, company, or other unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation or body politic;

(2) with respect to any country with which the United States was at war on January 1, 1946, the term "date of cessation of hostilities" shall mean the date of enactment of this Act;

(3) with respect to any other war the term "date of cessation of hostilities" shall mean the date specified by proclamation of the President or by a concurrent resolution of the two Houses of Congress whichever is the earlier.

(Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, §38, formerly §—, as added May 16, 1946, ch. 260, 60 Stat. 182, numbered Aug. 8, 1946, ch. 878, §3, 60 Stat. 930.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original "this Act", meaning act Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, 40 Stat. 411, known as the Trading with the enemy Act, also known as the Trading with the Enemy Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 4301 of this title and Tables.

The date of enactment of this Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), probably means the date of enactment of act May 16, 1946, ch. 260, which was approved May 16, 1946.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 38 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.