### §4293. Major defense acquisition programs: incentive program for contractors to purchase capital assets manufactured in United States

(a) Establishment of Incentive Program.—The Secretary of Defense shall plan and establish an incentive program in accordance with this section for contractors to purchase capital assets manufactured in the United States in part with funds available to the Department of Defense.

(b) Defense Industrial Capabilities Fund May Be Used.—The Secretary of Defense may use the Defense Industrial Capabilities Fund, established under section 814 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004, for incentive payments under the program established under this section.

(c) Applicability to Major Defense Acquisition Program Contracts.—The incentive program shall apply to contracts for the procurement of a major defense acquisition program.

(d) Consideration.—The Secretary of Defense shall provide consideration in source selection in any request for proposals for a major defense acquisition program for offerors with eligible capital assets.

(Added Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title VIII, §822(a)(1), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1546, §2436; renumbered §4293, Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1847(f)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4258.)

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.