### §2602. Reports in connection with permanent closures of Department of Energy defense nuclear facilities

#### (a) Training and job placement services plan

Not later than 120 days before a Department of Energy defense nuclear facility (as defined in section 2286g of title 42) permanently ceases all production and processing operations, the Secretary of Energy must submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing a discussion of the training and job placement services needed to enable the employees at such facility to obtain employment in the environmental remediation and cleanup activities at such facility. The discussion shall include the actions that should be taken by the contractor operating and managing such facility to provide retraining and job placement services to employees of such contractor.

#### (b) Closure report

Upon the permanent cessation of production operations at a Department of Energy defense nuclear facility, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to Congress a report containing—

(1) a complete survey of environmental problems at the facility;

(2) budget quality data indicating the cost of environmental restoration and other remediation and cleanup efforts at the facility; and

(3) a discussion of the proposed cleanup schedule.

(Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLIV, §4422, formerly Pub. L. 101–189, div. C, title XXXI, §3156, Nov. 29, 1989, 103 Stat. 1683; renumbered Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLIV, §4422, and amended Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, §3141(g)(12), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1766.)

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 7274b of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by Pub. L. 108–136.

#### Amendments

**2003**—Pub. L. 108–136, §3141(g)(12)(D), made technical amendment to section catchline.