### §9452. Cadets: hazing

(a) Subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Superintendent of the Academy shall issue regulations—

(1) defining hazing;

(2) designed to prevent that practice; and

(3) prescribing dismissal, suspension, or other adequate punishment for violations.

  

(b) If a cadet who is charged with violating a regulation issued under subsection (a), the penalty for which is or may be dismissal from the Academy, requests in writing a trial by a general court-martial, he may not be dismissed for that offense except under sentence of such a court.

(c) A cadet dismissed from the Academy for hazing may not be reappointed as an Air Force cadet, and is ineligible for appointment as a commissioned officer in a regular component of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps, until two years after the graduation of his class.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 566, §9352; renumbered §9452, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(a)(3), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1832.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section*            | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                                                               | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 9352(a)  9352(b)     9352(c) | 10:1163 (1st par.).  10:1163 (1st 32 words of last par.).  10:1163 (last par., less 1st 32 words). | Mar. 2, 1901, ch. 804 (2d proviso under "Permanent Establishment"); restated Apr. 19, 1910, ch. 174 (38th par. under "Buildings and Grounds"), 36 Stat. 323. |

In subsection (a), the word "violations" is substituted for the words "infractions of the same". The words "to embody a clear" are omitted as surplusage.

In subsection (b), the words "the penalty for which is or may be" are substituted for the words "which would involve". The words "may not be dismissed for that offense except under sentence of such a court" are substituted for the words "shall be granted".

In subsection (c), the words "a regular component" are inserted, since the source statute historically applied only to the regular components.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 9352 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.