### §763. Interagency Committee

#### (a) Establishment; membership; meetings

(1) In order to promote coordination and cooperation among Federal departments and agencies conducting rehabilitation research programs, including programs relating to assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design, there is established within the Federal Government an Interagency Committee on Disability Research (hereinafter in this section referred to as the "Committee"), chaired by the Director and comprised of such members as the President may designate, including the following (or their designees): the Director, the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration, the Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Director of the National Institutes of Health, the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Secretary of Transportation, the Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs, the Director of the Indian Health Service, and the Director of the National Science Foundation.

(2) The Committee shall meet not less than four times each year.

#### (b) Duties

(1) After receiving input from targeted individuals, the Committee shall identify, assess, and seek to coordinate all Federal programs, activities, and projects, and plans for such programs, activities, and projects with respect to the conduct of research (including assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design) related to rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities.

(2) In carrying out its duties with respect to the conduct of Federal research (including assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design) related to rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities, the Committee shall—

(A) share information regarding the range of assistive technology research, and research that incorporates the principles of universal design, that is being carried out by members of the Committee and other Federal departments and organizations;

(B) identify, and make efforts to address, gaps in assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design that are not being adequately addressed;

(C) identify, and establish, clear research priorities related to assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design for the Federal Government;

(D) promote interagency collaboration and joint research activities relating to assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design at the Federal level, and reduce unnecessary duplication of effort regarding these types of research within the Federal Government; and

(E) optimize the productivity of Committee members through resource sharing and other cost-saving activities, related to assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design.

#### (c) Annual report

Not later than December 31 of each year, the Committee shall prepare and submit, to the President and to the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report that—

(1) describes the progress of the Committee in fulfilling the duties described in subsection (b) of this section;

(2) makes such recommendations as the Committee determines to be appropriate with respect to coordination of policy and development of objectives and priorities for all Federal programs relating to the conduct of research (including assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design) related to rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities; and

(3) describes the activities that the Committee recommended to be funded through grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other mechanisms, for assistive technology research and development and research and development that incorporates the principles of universal design.

#### (d) Recommendations

(1) In order to promote coordination and cooperation among Federal departments and agencies conducting assistive technology research programs, to reduce duplication of effort among the programs, and to increase the availability of assistive technology for individuals with disabilities, the Committee may recommend activities to be funded through grants, contracts or cooperative agreements, or other mechanisms—

(A) in joint research projects for assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design; and

(B) in other programs designed to promote a cohesive, strategic Federal program of research described in subparagraph (A).

  

(2) The projects and programs described in paragraph (1) shall be jointly administered by at least 2 agencies or departments with representatives on the Committee.

(3) In recommending activities to be funded in the projects and programs, the Committee shall obtain input from targeted individuals, and other organizations and individuals the Committee determines to be appropriate, concerning the availability and potential of technology for individuals with disabilities.

#### (e) Definitions

In this section—

(1) the terms "assistive technology" and "universal design" have the meanings given the terms in section 3002 of this title; and

(2) the term "targeted individuals" has the meaning given the term "targeted individuals and entities" in section 3002 of this title.

(Pub. L. 93–112, title II, §203, as added Pub. L. 105–220, title IV, §405, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1173; amended Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, §101(f) \[title VIII, §401(16)\], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–337, 2681–412; Pub. L. 105–394, title II, §201, Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3651; Pub. L. 108–364, §3(b)(1), Oct. 25, 2004, 118 Stat. 1737.)

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to this section were contained in section 761b of this title prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 105–220.

A prior section 763, Pub. L. 93–112, title II, §203, Sept. 26, 1973, 87 Stat. 376, relating to making of grants and contracts for training of personnel involved in vocational services to handicapped individuals, was renumbered section 304 of Pub. L. 93–112 and transferred to section 774 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2004**—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–364 added subsec. (e) and struck out former subsec. (e) which read as follows: "In this section, the terms 'assistive technology', 'targeted individuals', and 'universal design' have the meanings given the terms in section 3002 of this title."

**1998**—Pub. L. 105–277 made technical amendment to directory language of Pub. L. 105–220, §405, which enacted this section.

Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 105–394, §201(1), inserted "including programs relating to assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design," after "programs,".

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 105–394, §201(2), designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted "targeted individuals" for "individuals with disabilities and the individuals' representatives", inserted "(including assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design)" after "research", and added par. (2).

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 105–394, §201(3), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c) which read as follows: "The Committee shall annually submit to the President and to the appropriate committees of the Congress a report making such recommendations as the Committee deems appropriate with respect to coordination of policy and development of objectives and priorities for all Federal programs relating to the conduct of research related to rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities."

Subsecs. (d), (e). Pub. L. 105–394, §201(4), added subsecs. (d) and (e).

#### Change of Name

Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.