### §760. Declaration of purpose

The purpose of this subchapter is to—

(1) provide for research, demonstration projects, training, and related activities to maximize the full inclusion and integration into society, employment, independent living, family support, and economic and social self-sufficiency of individuals with disabilities of all ages, with particular emphasis on improving the effectiveness of services authorized under this chapter;

(2) provide for a comprehensive and coordinated approach to the support and conduct of such research, demonstration projects, training, and related activities and to ensure that the approach is in accordance with the 5-year plan developed under section 762(h) of this title;

(3) promote the transfer of rehabilitation technology to individuals with disabilities through research and demonstration projects relating to—

(A) the procurement process for the purchase of rehabilitation technology;

(B) the utilization of rehabilitation technology on a national basis;

(C) specific adaptations or customizations of products to enable individuals with disabilities to live more independently; and

(D) the development or transfer of assistive technology;

  

(4) ensure the widespread distribution, in usable formats, of practical scientific and technological information—

(A) generated by research, demonstration projects, training, and related activities; and

(B) regarding state-of-the-art practices, improvements in the services authorized under this chapter, rehabilitation technology, and new knowledge regarding disabilities,

  

to rehabilitation professionals, individuals with disabilities, and other interested parties, including the general public;

(5) identify effective strategies that enhance the opportunities of individuals with disabilities to engage in employment, including employment involving telecommuting and self-employment; and

(6) increase opportunities for researchers who are members of traditionally underserved populations, including researchers who are members of minority groups and researchers who are individuals with disabilities.

(Pub. L. 93–112, title II, §200, as added Pub. L. 105–220, title IV, §405, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1167; amended Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, §101(f) \[title VIII, §401(16)\], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–337, 2681–412.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 760, Pub. L. 93–112, title II, §200, Sept. 26, 1973, 87 Stat. 374; Pub. L. 95–602, title I, §107, Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2962; Pub. L. 99–506, title I, §103(d)(2)(C), Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 1810; Pub. L. 102–569, title II, §201, Oct. 29, 1992, 106 Stat. 4398, contained congressional declaration of purpose, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 105–220.

#### Amendments

**1998**—Pub. L. 105–277 made technical amendment to directory language of Pub. L. 105–220, §405, which enacted this section.