### §3319b. Joint requests for proposals

#### (a) In general

In carrying out any competitive agricultural research, education, or extension grant program authorized under this or any other Act, the Secretary may cooperate with 1 or more other Federal agencies (including the National Science Foundation) in issuing joint requests for proposals, awarding grants, and administering grants, for similar or related research, education, or extension projects or activities.

#### (b) Administration

#### (1) Secretary

The Secretary may delegate authority to issue requests for proposals, make grant awards, or administer grants, in whole or in part, to a cooperating Federal agency.

#### (2) Cooperating Federal agency

The cooperating Federal agency may delegate to the Secretary authority to issue requests for proposals, make grant awards, or administer grants, in whole or in part.

#### (c) Regulations

The Secretary and a cooperating Federal agency may agree to make applicable to recipients of grants—

(1) the post-award grant administration regulations applicable to recipients of grants from the Secretary; or

(2) the post-award grant administration regulations applicable to recipients of grants from the cooperating Federal agency.

#### (d) Joint peer review panels

Subject to section 3129a of this title, the Secretary and a cooperating Federal agency may establish joint peer review panels for the purpose of evaluating grant proposals.

(Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, §1473B, as added Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, §7403(b), May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 456.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3319b, Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, §1473B, as added Pub. L. 99–198, title XIV, §1427, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1553, provided for technology development for small- and medium-sized farming operations, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 101–624, title XVI, §1601(f)(1)(E), Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3704.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Purposes

Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, §7403(a), May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 456, provided that:

"The purposes of this section \[enacting this section\] are—

"(1) to reduce the duplication of administrative functions relating to grant awards and administration among Federal agencies conducting similar types of research, education, and extension programs;

"(2) to maximize the use of peer review resources in research, education, and extension programs; and

"(3) to reduce the burden on potential recipients that may offer similar proposals to receive competitive grants under different Federal programs in overlapping subject areas."

#### Definitions

Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, §7401, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 455, provided that: "In this subtitle \[subtitle D (§7401–7412) of title VII of Pub. L. 107–171, enacting this section and sections \[former\] 3310a, \[former\] 3319f, 5925c, 5925d, and 7630 of this title and provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 3101, \[former\] 3319f, \[former\] 5925a, and 5925b of this title\]:

"(1) Department.—The term 'Department' means the Department of Agriculture.

"(2) Secretary.—The term 'Secretary' means the Secretary of Agriculture."