### §4041. Bureau of Prisons; director and employees

The Bureau of Prisons shall be in charge of a director appointed by and serving directly under the Attorney General. The Attorney General may appoint such additional officers and employees as he deems necessary.

(June 25, 1948, ch. 645, 62 Stat. 849; Pub. L. 107–273, div. A, title III, §302(1), Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1781.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., §753 (May 14, 1930, ch. 274, §1, 46 Stat. 325).

The entire second sentence was omitted as executed. All powers and authority originally vested in the former Superintendent of Prisons are now possessed by the Bureau of Prisons.

Minor changes of phraseology were made.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2002**—Pub. L. 107–273 struck out "at a salary of $10,000 a year" after "under the Attorney General".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Augmentation

Pub. L. 118–71, §2(c), July 25, 2024, 138 Stat. 1501, provided that: "On and after the effective date of this Act \[see Effective Date of 2024 Amendment note set out under section 413 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees\], the Bureau of Prisons shall implement the directive in the second sentence on the topic 'Augmentation' in the matter under the heading 'SALARIES AND EXPENSES' under the heading 'FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM' in the joint explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 117–328 \[set forth in House Appropriations Committee Print 117th Congress, Book 1—Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, div. B, p. 296\]."

#### Compensation of Director

Compensation of Director, see section 5315 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.