### §6931. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation

#### (a) Authorization

The Secretary is authorized to establish in the Department the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation.

#### (b) Confirmation required

If the Secretary establishes the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation authorized under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

#### (c) Functions of Undersecretary [1](#6931_1_target)

The Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation shall perform such functions and duties as the Secretary shall prescribe.

#### (d) Succession

Any official who is serving as Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services on March 23, 2018, and who was appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall not be required to be reappointed under subsection (b) to the successor position authorized under subsection (a).

(Pub. L. 103–354, title II, §225, Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3213; Pub. L. 115–141, div. A, title VII, §772(a)(2), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 397.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 225 of Pub. L. 103–354. Subsec. (e) of section 225 of Pub. L. 103–354 amended section 5314 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and repealed section 5691 of this title.

Another section 225 of Pub. L. 103–354 is classified to section 6925 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–141 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "Under Secretary".](#6931_1)