### §3218. Franked mail for survivors of Members of Congress

Upon the death of a Member of Congress during his term of office, the surviving spouse of such Member (or, if there is no surviving spouse, a member of the immediate family of the Member designated by the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives, as appropriate, in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Secretary or the Clerk) may send, for a period not to exceed 180 days after his death, as franked mail, nonpolitical correspondence relating to the death of the Member.

(Pub. L. 91–375, Aug. 12, 1970, 84 Stat. 755; Pub. L. 93–191, §11, Dec. 18, 1973, 87 Stat. 746; Pub. L. 97–69, §6(b), (c)(1), Oct. 26, 1981, 95 Stat. 1043.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**1981**—Pub. L. 97–69 substituted "survivors" for "surviving spouses" in section catchline and, in text, inserted "(or, if there is no surviving spouse, a member of the immediate family of the Member designated by the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives, as appropriate, in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Secretary or the Clerk)" after "such Member".

**1973**—Pub. L. 93–191 inserted "nonpolitical" before "correspondence".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1973 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 93–191 effective Dec. 18, 1973, see section 14 of Pub. L. 93–191, set out as a note under section 3210 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1971, pursuant to Resolution No. 71–9 of the Board of Governors. See section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375, set out as a note preceding section 101 of this title.