### §7351. Program authorized

#### (a) Grants to States

#### (1) In general

From amounts appropriated under section 7355c of this title for this subpart for a fiscal year that are not reserved under subsection (c), the Secretary shall award grants (from allotments made under paragraph (2)) for the fiscal year to State educational agencies that have applications submitted under section 7351b of this title approved to enable the State educational agencies to award grants to eligible local educational agencies for local authorized activities described in section 7351a(a) of this title.

#### (2) Allotment

From amounts described in paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall allot to each State educational agency for that fiscal year an amount that bears the same ratio to those amounts as the number of students in average daily attendance served by eligible local educational agencies in the State for that fiscal year bears to the number of all such students served by eligible local educational agencies in all States for that fiscal year.

#### (3) Specially qualified agencies

#### (A) Eligibility and application

If a State educational agency elects not to participate in the program under this subpart or does not have an application submitted under section 7351b of this title approved, a specially qualified agency in such State desiring a grant under this subpart may submit an application under such section directly to the Secretary to receive an award under this subpart.

#### (B) Direct awards

The Secretary may award, on a competitive basis or by formula, the amount the State educational agency is eligible to receive under paragraph (2) directly to a specially qualified agency in the State that has submitted an application in accordance with subparagraph (A) and obtained approval of the application.

#### (C) Specially qualified agency defined

In this subpart, the term "specially qualified agency" means an eligible local educational agency served by a State educational agency that does not participate in a program under this subpart in a fiscal year, that may apply directly to the Secretary for a grant in such year under this subsection.

#### (b) Local awards

#### (1) Eligibility

A local educational agency shall be eligible to receive a grant under this subpart if—

(A)(i) 20 percent or more of the children ages 5 through 17 years served by the local educational agency are from families with incomes below the poverty line; and

(ii) all of the schools served by the agency are designated with a locale code of 32, 33, 41, 42, or 43, as determined by the Secretary; or

(B) the agency meets the criteria established in clause (i) of subparagraph (A) and the Secretary, in accordance with paragraph (2), grants the local educational agency's request to waive the criteria described in clause (ii) of such subparagraph.

#### (2) Certification

The Secretary shall determine whether to waive the criteria described in paragraph (1)(A)(ii) based on a demonstration by the local educational agency, and concurrence by the State educational agency, that the local educational agency is located in an area defined as rural by a governmental agency of the State.

#### (3) Award basis

A State educational agency shall award grants to eligible local educational agencies—

(A) on a competitive basis;

(B) according to a formula based on the number of students in average daily attendance served by the eligible local educational agencies or schools in the State; or

(C) according to an alternative formula, if, prior to awarding the grants, the State educational agency demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that the alternative formula enables the State educational agency to allot the grant funds in a manner that serves equal or greater concentrations of children from families with incomes below the poverty line, relative to the concentrations that would be served if the State educational agency used the formula described in subparagraph (B).

#### (c) Reservations

From amounts appropriated under section 7355c of this title for this subpart for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve—

(1) one-half of 1 percent to make awards to elementary schools or secondary schools operated or supported by the Bureau of Indian Education, to carry out the activities authorized under this subpart; and

(2) one-half of 1 percent to make awards to the outlying areas in accordance with their respective needs, to carry out the activities authorized under this subpart.

(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, §5221, formerly title VI, §6221, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title VI, §601, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1894; renumbered title V, §5221, and amended Pub. L. 114–95, title V, §§5001(a)(4), (b)(3), (4), 5003(4), Dec. 10, 2015, 129 Stat. 2039, 2040, 2043.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7351, Pub. L. 89–10, title VI, §6301, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, §101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3711; amended Pub. L. 105–278, §2(2), Oct. 22, 1998, 112 Stat. 2682, related to targeted use of funds for local innovative education programs, prior to the general amendment of former subchapter VI of this chapter by Pub. L. 107–110.

A prior section 5221 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 7223 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 114–95.

#### Amendments

**2015**—Subsec. (a)(1), (3)(A). Pub. L. 114–95, §§5001(b)(3), (4), 5003(4)(A), made technical amendments to references in original act which appear in text as references to sections 7355c, 7351b, and 7351a(a) of this title.

Subsec. (b)(1)(A). Pub. L. 114–95, §5003(4)(B)(i)(I), (II), designated existing provisions as cl. (i) and redesignated subpar. (B) as cl. (ii).

Subsec. (b)(1)(A)(ii). Pub. L. 114–95, §5003(4)(B)(i)(III)(aa), (bb), struck out "school" before "locale code" and substituted "32, 33, 41, 42, or 43" for "6, 7, or 8".

Subsec. (b)(1)(B). Pub. L. 114–95, §5003(4)(B)(i)(III)(cc), (IV), added subpar. (B). Former subpar. (B) redesignated cl. (ii) of subpar. (A).

Subsec. (b)(2), (3). Pub. L. 114–95, §5003(4)(B)(ii), (iii), added par. (2) and redesignated former par. (2) as (3).

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 114–95, §5001(b)(4), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in introductory provisions as reference to section 7355c of this title.

Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 114–95, §5003(4)(C), substituted "Bureau of Indian Education" for "Bureau of Indian Affairs".

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–95 effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95, set out as a note under section 6301 of this title.