### §3079–1. Limitation on educational assistance

#### (a) In general

Each fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year in which this Act is enacted, the Secretary of Commerce shall ensure that the total amount expended by the Secretary under section 3077 of this title (as added by section 201(a)), section 3078 of this title (as added by section 202(a)), and section 3079 of this title (as added by section 203(a)) does not exceed the amount by which—

(1) the total amount the Secretary would pay in that fiscal year to officer candidates under section 203(f)(1) of title 37 (as added by section 305(d)), if such section entitled officer candidates to pay at monthly rates equal to the basic pay of a commissioned officer in the pay grade O–1 with less than 2 years of service, exceeds

(2) the total amount the Secretary actually pays in that fiscal year to officer candidates under section 203(f)(1) of such title.

#### (b) Officer candidate defined

In this section, the term "officer candidate" has the meaning given the term in paragraph (4) of section 3002(b) of this title, as added by section 305(c).

(Pub. L. 116–259, title II, §204, Dec. 23, 2020, 134 Stat. 1165.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The fiscal year in which this Act is enacted, referred to in subsec. (a), means the fiscal year in which Pub. L. 116–259, which added this section, was enacted. Pub. L. 116–259 was approved Dec. 23, 2020.

Sections 201(a), 202(a), 203(a), and 305 (c) and (d), referred to in text, mean those respective sections of Pub. L. 116–259.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Amendments Act of 2020, and not as part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002 which comprises this chapter.