### §98h–2. Reports

#### (a) Reports to the Board

The National Defense Stockpile Manager shall submit to the Board the following:

(1) Not later than 40 calendar days after the last day of each of the first three fiscal quarters in each fiscal year, unaudited financial statements and a Manager's Discussion and Analysis for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter.

(2) Not later than 60 calendar days after the conclusion of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year—

(A) audited financial statements and a Manager's Discussion and Analysis for the immediately preceding fiscal year; and

(B) an Annual Materials and Operations Plan for the forthcoming year.

#### (b) Reports to Congress

#### (1) Reports by National Defense Stockpile Manage [1](#98h-2_1_target)

Not later than 90 days after the conclusion of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, the National Defense Stockpile Manager shall submit to the congressional defense committees (as defined in section 101(a) of title 10) a report that shall include—

(A) information with respect to foreign and domestic purchases of materials for the stockpile during the preceding fiscal year;

(B) information with respect to the acquisition and disposal of materials under this subchapter by barter, during such fiscal year;

(C) information with respect to the activities by the National Defense Stockpile Manager to encourage the conservation, substitution, and development of strategic and critical materials;

(D) information with respect to the research and development activities conducted under section 98g of this title;

(E) audited annual financial statements for the Strategic and Critical Materials Fund;

(F) other pertinent information on the administration of this subchapter as will enable the Congress to evaluate the effectiveness of the program;

(G) details of all planned expenditures from the Strategic and Critical Materials Fund over the Future Years' Defense Program and anticipated receipts from proposed disposals of stockpile materials; and

(H) the report required by paragraph (2).

#### (2) Report by the Board

The Board shall prepare a written report to accompany the report required by paragraph (1) which shall include—

(A) the activities of the Board to carry out the duties listed in section 98h–1(c) of this title; and

(B) the most recent Annual Materials and Operations Plan submitted under subsection (a)(2)(B).

(June 7, 1939, ch. 190, §11, as added Pub. L. 96–41, §2(a), July 30, 1979, 93 Stat. 324; amended Pub. L. 97–35, title II, §203(e), Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 382; Pub. L. 99–661, div. C, title II, §3207(a)(3), Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 4069; Pub. L. 100–180, div. C, title II, §3205, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1247; Pub. L. 100–456, div. A, title XV, §1503, Sept. 29, 1988, 102 Stat. 2086; Pub. L. 101–189, div. C, title XXXIII, §3315, Nov. 29, 1989, 103 Stat. 1688; Pub. L. 102–190, div. C, title XXXIII, §§3311(b), 3313(a), Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1584; Pub. L. 103–35, title II, §204(d), May 31, 1993, 107 Stat. 103; Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title X, §1071(j), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3512; Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XIV, §1423, Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2093; Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title XIV, §1411(c), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 2870.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 11 of act June 7, 1939, ch. 190, formerly §10, as added July 23, 1946, ch. 590, 60 Stat. 596; renumbered §11, Pub. L. 92–156, title V, §503(1), Nov. 17, 1971, 85 Stat. 427, was set out as a Short Title note under section 98 of this title, prior to repeal by section 2(b)(2) of Pub. L. 96–41.

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in former section 98c of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 96–41.

#### Amendments

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to annual reports to Congress, including materials plans for the operation of the stockpile.

**2018**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–232, §1423(1), substituted "February 15" for "January 15" in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 115–232, §1423(2)(A), substituted "Each report under subsection (a) shall also include" for "Not later than February 15 of each year, the President shall submit to the appropriate committees of the Congress a report containing".

Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 115–232, §1423(2)(B), substituted "With respect to the plan described in paragraph (1), each such report shall include" for "Each such report shall include" and "With respect to such plan, each report shall also contain" for "Each such report shall also contain".

**2014**—Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 113–291 substituted "under section 98h(b)(2)(H)" for "under section 98h(b)(2)(G)".

**1993**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 103–35 substituted "fiscal year" for "six-month period".

**1991**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 102–190, §3313(a)(1), substituted "Not later than January 15 of each year, the President" for "The President" and "an annual" for "every six months a".

Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 102–190, §3313(a)(2), which directed the substitution of "fiscal year" for "6-month period", could not be executed because the words "6-month period" did not appear in text.

Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 102–190, §3313(a)(3), substituted "fiscal year" for "period".

Subsec. (a)(5). Pub. L. 102–190, §3313(a)(4), substituted "current fiscal year" for "next fiscal year".

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 102–190, §3311(b)(1), designated first sentence of subsec. (b) relating to submission of report as par. (1).

Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 102–190, §3311(b), designated second sentence of subsec. (b) relating to contents of report as par. (2) and inserted at end "Each such report shall also contain details regarding the materials development and research projects to be conducted under section 98h(b)(2)(G) of this title during the fiscal years covered by the report. With respect to each development and research project, the report shall specify the amount planned to be expended from the fund, the material intended to be developed, the potential military or defense industrial applications for that material, and the development and research methodologies to be used."

Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 102–190, §3311(b)(1), designated third sentence of subsec. (b) relating to resubmission of proposed expenditures and disposals not obligated or executed as par. (3).

**1989**—Subsec. (a)(5). Pub. L. 101–189 substituted "made to the fund, and obligations to be made from the fund," for "made from the fund".

**1988**—Subsec. (a)(3) to (6). Pub. L. 100–456, §1503(a), added pars. (3) and (4) and redesignated former pars. (3) and (4) as (5) and (6), respectively.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 100–456, §1503(b), substituted "the next fiscal year" for "such fiscal year" and "all planned expenditures from the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund" for "planned expenditures for acquisition of strategic and critical materials" and inserted at end "Any proposed expenditure or disposal detailed in the annual materials plan for any such fiscal year, and any expenditure or disposal proposed in connection with any transaction submitted for such fiscal year to the appropriate committees of Congress pursuant to section 98d(a)(2) of this title, that is not obligated or executed in that fiscal year may not be obligated or executed until such proposed expenditure or disposal is resubmitted in a subsequent annual materials plan or is resubmitted to the appropriate committees of Congress in accordance with section 98d(a)(2) of this title, as appropriate."

**1987**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 100–180 substituted "Not later than February 15 of each year, the President" for "The President" and struck out "each year, at the time that the Budget is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31 for the next fiscal year," after "Congress".

**1986**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 99–661 substituted "each year, at the time that the Budget is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31 for the next fiscal year," for each year with the Budget submitted to Congress pursuant to section 201a of the Budget and Accounting Act, 1921 (31 U.S.C. 11(a)), for the next fiscal year".

**1981**—Pub. L. 97–35 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

[1 So in original. Probably should be "Manager".](#98h-2_1)