### §3452. Relationship of other provisions of law to procurement of commercial products and commercial services

(a) Applicability of Government-wide Statutes.—(1) No contract for the procurement of a commercial product or commercial service entered into by the head of an agency shall be subject to any law properly listed in the Federal Acquisition Regulation pursuant to section 1906(b) of title 41.

(2) No subcontract under a contract for the procurement of a commercial product or commercial service entered into by the head of an agency shall be subject to any law properly listed in the Federal Acquisition Regulation pursuant to section 1906(c) of title 41.

(3) No contract for the procurement of a commercially available off-the-shelf item entered into by the head of an agency shall be subject to any law properly listed in the Federal Acquisition Regulation pursuant to section 1907 of title 41.

(b) Applicability of Defense-unique Statutes to Contracts for Commercial Products and Commercial Services.—(1) The Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement shall include a list of defense-unique provisions of law and of contract clause requirements based on government-wide acquisition regulations, policies, or executive orders not expressly authorized in law that are inapplicable to contracts for the procurement of commercial products and commercial services. A provision of law or contract clause requirement properly included on the list pursuant to paragraph (2) does not apply to purchases of commercial products and commercial services by the Department of Defense. This section does not render a provision of law or contract clause requirement not included on the list inapplicable to contracts for the procurement of commercial products and commercial services.

(2) A provision of law or contract clause requirement described in subsection (e) that is enacted after October 13, 1994, shall be included on the list of inapplicable provisions of law and contract clause requirements required by paragraph (1) unless the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment makes a written determination that it would not be in the best interest of the Department of Defense to exempt contracts for the procurement of commercial products and commercial services from the applicability of the provision or contract clause requirement.

(c) Applicability of Defense-unique Statutes to Subcontracts for Commercial Products and Commercial Services.—(1) The Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement shall include a list of provisions of law and of contract clause requirements based on government-wide acquisition regulations, policies, or executive orders not expressly authorized in law that are inapplicable to subcontracts under a Department of Defense contract or subcontract for the procurement of commercial products and commercial services. A provision of law or contract clause requirement properly included on the list pursuant to paragraph (2) does not apply to those subcontracts. This section does not render a provision of law or contract clause requirement not included on the list inapplicable to subcontracts under a contract for the procurement of commercial products and commercial services.

(2) A provision of law or contract clause requirement described in subsection (e) shall be included on the list of inapplicable provisions of law and contract clause requirements required by paragraph (1) unless the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment makes a written determination that it would not be in the best interest of the Department of Defense to exempt subcontracts under a contract for the procurement of commercial products and commercial services from the applicability of the provision or contract clause requirement.

(3) In this subsection, the term "subcontract" includes a transfer of commercial products and commercial services between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of a contractor or subcontractor. The term does not include agreements entered into by a contractor for the supply of commodities that are intended for use in the performance of multiple contracts with the Department of Defense and other parties and are not identifiable to any particular contract.

(4) This subsection does not authorize the waiver of the applicability of any provision of law or contract clause requirement with respect to any first-tier subcontract under a contract with a prime contractor reselling or distributing commercial products and commercial services of another contractor without adding value.

(d) Applicability of Defense-unique Statutes to Contracts for Commercially Available, Off-the-shelf Items.—(1) The Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement shall include a list of provisions of law and of contract clause requirements based on government-wide acquisition regulations, policies, or executive orders not expressly authorized in law that are inapplicable to contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items. A provision of law or contract clause requirement properly included on the list pursuant to paragraph (2) does not apply to Department of Defense contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items. This section does not render a provision of law or contract clause requirement not included on the list inapplicable to contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items.

(2) A provision of law or contract clause requirement described in subsection (e) shall be included on the list of inapplicable provisions of law and contract clause requirements required by paragraph (1) unless the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment makes a written determination that it would not be in the best interest of the Department of Defense to exempt contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items from the applicability of the provision or contract clause requirement.

(e) Covered Provision of Law or Contract Clause Requirement.—A provision of law or contract clause requirement referred to in subsections (b)(2), (c)(2), and (d)(2) is a provision of law or contract clause requirement that the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment determines sets forth policies, procedures, requirements, or restrictions for the procurement of property or services by the Federal Government, except for a provision of law or contract clause requirement that—

(1) provides for criminal or civil penalties;

(2) requires that certain articles be bought from American sources pursuant to section 4862 of this title, or requires that strategic materials critical to national security be bought from American sources pursuant to section 4863 of this title; or

(3) specifically refers to this section and provides that, notwithstanding this section, it shall be applicable to contracts for the procurement of commercial products and commercial services.

(Added Pub. L. 103–355, title VIII, §8102, Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3390, §2375; amended Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title X, §1073(a)(51), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1903; Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title X, §1048(a)(18), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1223; Pub. L. 111–350, §5(b)(21), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3844; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §874(a), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2308; Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §§836(d)(1), (8)(B), 837(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1866, 1868, 1875; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, §902(57), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1549; renumbered §3452 and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1821(a)(2), (b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4195.)

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.