### §12644b. Consolidated application and reporting requirements

#### (a) In general

To promote efficiency and eliminate duplicative requirements, the Corporation shall consolidate or modify application procedures and reporting requirements for programs, projects, and activities funded under the national service laws.

#### (b) Report to Congress

Not later than 18 months after the effective date of the Serve America Act, the Corporation shall submit to the authorizing committees a report containing information on the actions taken to consolidate or modify the application procedures and reporting requirements for programs, projects, and activities funded under the national service laws, including a description of the procedures for consultation with recipients of the funding.

(Pub. L. 101–610, title I, §185, as added Pub. L. 111–13, title I, §1612, Apr. 21, 2009, 123 Stat. 1538.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For the effective date of the Serve America Act, referred to in subsec. (b), as Oct. 1, 2009, see section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13, set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under section 4950 of this title.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 185 of Pub. L. 101–610 amended sections 1070a–6 and 1087vv of title 20 prior to repeal by section 122(a) of Pub. L. 103–82.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2009, see section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13, set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under section 4950 of this title.