### §181. Joint Requirements Oversight Council

(a) In General.—There is a Joint Requirements Oversight Council in the Department of Defense.

(b) Mission.—In addition to other matters assigned to it by the President or Secretary of Defense, the Joint Requirements Oversight Council shall assist the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in—

(1) assessing joint military capabilities, and identifying, approving, and prioritizing gaps in such capabilities, to meet applicable requirements in the national defense strategy under section 113(g) of this title;

(2) reviewing and validating whether a capability proposed by an armed force, Defense Agency, or other entity of the Department of Defense fulfills a gap in joint military capabilities;

(3) establishing and approving joint performance requirements that—

(A) ensure interoperability, where appropriate, between and among joint military capabilities; and

(B) are necessary, as designated by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to fulfill capability gaps of more than one armed force, Defense Agency, or other entity of the Department;

  

(4) reviewing performance requirements for any existing or proposed capability that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff determines should be reviewed by the Council;

(5) identifying new joint military capabilities based on advances in technology and concepts of operation; and

(6) identifying alternatives to any acquisition program that meets approved joint military capability requirements for the purposes of sections 2366a(b), 2366b(a)(4), and 2433(e)(2) of this title.

  

(c) Composition.—

(1) In general.—The Joint Requirements Oversight Council is composed of the following:

(A) The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who is the Chair of the Council and is the principal adviser to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for making recommendations about joint military capabilities or joint performance requirements.

(B) An Army officer in the grade of general.

(C) A Navy officer in the grade of admiral.

(D) An Air Force officer in the grade of general.

(E) A Marine Corps officer in the grade of general.

(F) A Space Force officer in the grade equivalent to the grade of general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, or admiral in the Navy.

  

(2) Selection of members.—Members of the Council under subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E) of paragraph (1) shall be selected by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, after consultation with the Secretary of Defense, from officers in the grade of general or admiral, as the case may be, who are recommended for selection by the Secretary of the military department concerned.

(3) Recommendations.—In making any recommendation to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as described in paragraph (1)(A), the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall provide the Chairman any dissenting view of members of the Council under paragraph (1) with respect to such recommendation.

  

(d) Advisors.—

(1) In general.—The following officials of the Department of Defense shall serve as advisors to the Joint Requirements Oversight Council on matters within their authority and expertise:

(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.

(B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.

(C) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.

(D) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.

(E) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).

(F) The Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation.

(G) The Director of Operational Test and Evaluation.

(H) The commander of a combatant command when matters related to the area of responsibility or functions of that command are under consideration by the Council.

  

(2) Input from combatant commands.—The Council shall seek and consider input from the commanders of the combatant commands in carrying out its mission under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b).

(3) Input from chiefs of staff.—The Council shall seek, and strongly consider, the views of the Chiefs of Staff of the armed forces, in their roles as customers of the acquisition system, on matters pertaining to a capability proposed by an armed force, Defense Agency, or other entity of the Department of Defense under subsection (b)(2) and joint performance requirements pursuant to subsection (b)(3).

(4) Input from vice chief of the national guard bureau.—The Council shall seek, and strongly consider, the views of the Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau regarding non-Federalized National Guard capabilities in support of homeland defense and civil support missions.

  

(e) Performance Requirements as Responsibility of Armed Forces.—The Chief of Staff of an armed force is responsible for all performance requirements for that armed force and, except for performance requirements specified in subsections (b)(4) and (b)(5), such performance requirements do not need to be validated by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council.

(f) Analytic Support.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that analytical organizations within the Department of Defense, such as the Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, provide resources and expertise in operations research, systems analysis, and cost estimation to the Joint Requirements Oversight Council to assist the Council in performing the mission in subsection (b).

(g) Availability of Oversight Information to Congressional Defense Committees.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that, in the case of a recommendation by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the Secretary that is approved by the Secretary, oversight information with respect to such recommendation that is produced as a result of the activities of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council is made available in a timely fashion to the congressional defense committees.

(h) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "joint military capabilities" means the collective capabilities across the joint force, including both joint and force-specific capabilities, that are available to conduct military operations.

(2) The term "performance requirement" means a performance attribute of a particular system considered critical or essential to the development of an effective military capability.

(3) The term "joint performance requirement" means a performance requirement that is critical or essential to ensure interoperability or fulfill a capability gap of more than one armed force, Defense Agency, or other entity of the Department of Defense, or impacts the joint force in other ways such as logistics.

(4) The term "oversight information" means information and materials comprising analysis and justification that are prepared to support a recommendation that is made to, and approved by, the Secretary of Defense.

(Added Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title IX, §905(a)(1), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 403; amended Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title IX, §908, Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2621; Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, §1067(1), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 774; Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, §1043(b)(3), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1610; Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title IX, §942(a)–(d), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 287, 288; Pub. L. 110–417, \[div. A\], title VIII, §813(d)(1), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4527; Pub. L. 111–23, title I, §§101(d)(1), 105(a), title II, §201(b), May 22, 2009, 123 Stat. 1709, 1717, 1719; Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §841, title X, §1075(b)(8), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4281, 4369; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title IX, §951(b), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1891; Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title VIII, §802(d)(1), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 879; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title IX, §925(a), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2359; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(a)(15), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1595; Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §831(b)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1857; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, §902(7), title XVI, §1621(e)(1)(A)(v), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1543, 1733; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §§906, 924(b)(9), title XVIII, §§1850(m), 1883(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3799, 3822, 4271, 4294.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1883(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4294, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, except as otherwise provided in title XVIII of Pub. L. 116–283, in title 10, United States Code, each reference in the text of such title to a source section that is redesignated by title XVIII of Pub. L. 116–283, is amended by striking such reference and inserting a reference to the appropriate section as so redesignated. See 2021 Amendment note below.

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1850(m), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4271, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, subsection (b)(6) of this section is amended by striking "2433(e)(2)" and inserting "4375(b)". See 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (b)(6). Pub. L. 116–283, §1883(b)(2), substituted "4251(b)" for "2366a(b)" and "4252(a)(4)" for "2366b(a)(4)".

Pub. L. 116–283, §1850(m), substituted "4375(b)" for "2433(e)(2)".

Subsec. (c)(1)(F). Pub. L. 116–283, §924(b)(9), added subpar. (F).

Subsec. (d)(1)(D). Pub. L. 116–283, §906(b), substituted "The" for "the".

Subsec. (d)(4). Pub. L. 116–283, §906(a), added par. (4).

**2019**—Subsec. (d)(1)(B). Pub. L. 116–92, §1621(e)(1)(A)(v), substituted "Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security" for "Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence".

Subsec. (d)(1)(C). Pub. L. 116–92, §902(7)(A), substituted "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment" for "Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics".

Subsec. (d)(1)(D) to (H). Pub. L. 116–92, §902(7)(B), (C), added subpar. (D) and redesignated former subpars. (D) to (G) as (E) to (H), respectively.

**2018**—Subsec. (b)(3) to (7). Pub. L. 115–232 redesignated pars. (4) to (7) as (3) to (6), respectively, and struck out former par. (3) which related to development of recommendations for program cost and fielding targets pursuant to section 2448a of this title.

**2017**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 115–91 substituted "section 113(g)" for "section 118".

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to Joint Requirements Oversight Council and consisted of its establishment, mission, composition, advisors, organization, availability of oversight information to Congressional defense committees, and definitions.

**2015**—Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 114–92 added par. (3).

**2013**—Subsec. (b)(1)(C). Pub. L. 112–239, §951(b)(1), substituted "in ensuring that appropriate trade-offs are made among life-cycle cost, schedule, and performance objectives, and procurement quantity objectives, in the establishment and approval of military requirements" for "in ensuring the consideration of trade-offs among cost, schedule, and performance objectives for joint military requirements".

Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 112–239, §951(b)(2), substituted "the total cost of such resources" for "such resource level".

**2011**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 111–383, §841(d), substituted "There is" for "The Secretary of Defense shall establish".

Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 111–383, §1075(b)(8), which directed substitution of "Program Evaluation" for "Performance Evaluation", could not be executed because of the amendment by Pub. L. 111–383, §841(c)(2). See below.

Pub. L. 111–383, §841(c)(2), substituted "advisors to the Council under subsection (d)" for "Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, and the Director of Cost Assessment and Performance Evaluation".

Subsec. (c)(1)(A). Pub. L. 111–383, §841(a)(1), inserted "Vice" before "Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff".

Subsec. (c)(1)(F). Pub. L. 111–383, §841(b), added subpar. (F).

Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 111–383, §841(a)(2), substituted "under subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E) of paragraph (1)" for ", other than the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,".

Subsec. (c)(3). Pub. L. 111–383, §841(a)(3), struck out par. (3) which read as follows: "The functions of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as chairman of the Council may only be delegated to the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff."

Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 111–383, §841(c)(1), substituted "The following officials of the Department of Defense shall serve as advisors to the Council on matters within their authority and expertise:" for "The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), and the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation shall serve as advisors to the Council on matters within their authority and expertise." and added subpars. (A) to (F).

**2009**—Subsec. (b)(1)(C). Pub. L. 111–23, §201(b)(1), added subpar. (C).

Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 111–23, §201(b)(2)(A), inserted ", in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, and the Director of Cost Assessment and Performance Evaluation," after "assist the Chairman".

Subsec. (b)(5). Pub. L. 111–23, §201(b)(2)(B)–(4), added par. (5).

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 111–23, §105(a), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

Pub. L. 111–23, §101(d)(1), substituted "Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation" for "Director of the Office of Program Analysis and Evaluation".

**2008**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 110–181, §942(a), amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) related to mission of Joint Requirements Oversight Council.

Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 110–417 substituted "section 2366a(b), section 2366b(a)(4)," for "section 2366a(a)(4), section 2366b(b),".

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 110–181, §942(b)(2), added subsec. (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (f).

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 110–181, §942(c), added subsec. (e).

Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 110–181, §942(b)(1), redesignated subsec. (d) as (f).

Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 110–181, §942(d), added subsec. (g).

**2003**—Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 108–136 substituted "subsection, the term 'oversight" for "subsection:", struck out "(A) The term 'oversight" before "information' means", and struck out subpar. (B) which read as follows: "The term 'congressional defense committees' means—

"(i) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

"(ii) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives."

**1999**—Subsec. (d)(2)(B)(ii). Pub. L. 106–65 substituted "Committee on Armed Services" for "Committee on National Security".

**1996**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–201 added subsec. (d).

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by sections 1850(m) and 1883(b)(2) of Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title IX, §905(b), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 404, provided that: "The amendments made by this section \[enacting this section\] shall take effect on January 31, 1997."

#### Input From Commanders of Combatant Commands

Pub. L. 111–23, title I, §105(b), May 22, 2009, 123 Stat. 1718, provided that: "The Joint Requirements Oversight Council in the Department of Defense shall seek and consider input from the commanders of combatant commands, in accordance with section 181(d) of title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)). Such input may include, but is not limited to, an assessment of the following:

"(1) Any current or projected missions or threats in the theater of operations of the commander of a combatant command that would inform the assessment of a new joint military requirement.

"(2) The necessity and sufficiency of a proposed joint military requirement in terms of current and projected missions or threats.

"(3) The relative priority of a proposed joint military requirement in comparison with other joint military requirements within the theater of operations of the commander of a combatant command.

"(4) The ability of partner nations in the theater of operations of the commander of a combatant command to assist in meeting the joint military requirement or the benefit, if any, of a partner nation assisting in development or use of technologies developed to meet the joint military requirement."

#### Review of Joint Military Requirements

Pub. L. 111–23, title II, §201(c), May 22, 2009, 123 Stat. 1720, provided that: "The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each new joint military requirement recommended by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council is reviewed to ensure that the Joint Requirements Oversight Council has, in making such recommendation—

"(1) taken appropriate action to seek and consider input from the commanders of the combatant commands, in accordance with the requirements of section 181(d) of title 10, United States Code (as amended by section 105(a) of this Act);

"(2) engaged in consideration of trade-offs among cost, schedule, and performance objectives in accordance with the requirements of section 181(b)(1)(C) of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (b)); and

"(3) engaged in consideration of issues of joint portfolio management, including alternative material and non-material solutions, as provided in Department of Defense instructions for the development of joint military requirements."

#### Study Guidance for Analyses of Alternatives

Pub. L. 111–23, title II, §201(d), May 22, 2009, 123 Stat. 1720, provided that: "The Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation shall take the lead in the development of study guidance for an analysis of alternatives for each joint military requirement for which the Chairman of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council is the validation authority. In developing the guidance, the Director shall solicit the advice of appropriate officials within the Department of Defense and ensure that the guidance requires, at a minimum—

"(1) full consideration of possible trade-offs among cost, schedule, and performance objectives for each alternative considered; and

"(2) an assessment of whether or not the joint military requirement can be met in a manner that is consistent with the cost and schedule objectives recommended by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council."

#### Deadlines for Inclusion of Core Mission References in Documents

Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title IX, §942(f), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 288, provided that: "Effective June 1, 2009, all joint military requirements documents of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council produced to carry out its mission under section 181(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, shall reference the core mission areas organized and defined under \[former\] section 118b of such title. Not later than October 1, 2009, all such documents produced before June 1, 2009, shall reference such structure."

#### Reports on Joint Requirements Oversight Council Reform Initiative

Pub. L. 106–398, §1 \[\[div. A\], title IX, §916\], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–231, as amended by Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title IX, §923, Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1199, directed the Chairman of the Joints Chiefs of Staff to submit reports to committees of Congress not later than Mar. 1, 2001, Sept. 1, 2001, Mar. 1, 2002, and Mar. 1, 2003, on the progress made on the initiative of the Chairman to reform and refocus the Joint Requirements Oversight Council.