### §10619. Technical assistance, training, and evaluation

#### (a) Technical assistance and training

The Attorney General may provide technical assistance and training in furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter, including training for drug court personnel and officials on identifying and addressing co-occurring substance abuse and mental health problems.

#### (b) Evaluations

In addition to any evaluation requirements that may be prescribed for grantees (including uniform data collection standards and reporting requirements), the Attorney General shall carry out or make arrangements for evaluations of programs that receive support under this subchapter.

#### (c) Administration

The technical assistance, training, and evaluations authorized by this section may be carried out directly by the Attorney General, in collaboration with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or through grants, contracts, or other cooperative arrangements with other entities.

(Pub. L. 90–351, title I, §2959, as added Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II, §2301(a), Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1797; amended Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIV, §14007(2), Dec. 13, 2016, 130 Stat. 1296.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 3797u–8 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 114–255 inserted before period at end ", including training for drug court personnel and officials on identifying and addressing co-occurring substance abuse and mental health problems".