### §306. National bird

The bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) is the national bird.

(Added Pub. L. 118–206, §1(b), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2699.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rule of Construction

Pub. L. 118–206, §1(d), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2700, provided that: "Nothing in this section \[enacting this section and provisions set out as a note under this section\], the amendments made by this section, or the adoption of the bald eagle as the national bird of the United States may be construed or used as a reason to alter, change, modify, or otherwise affect any plan, policy, management decision, regulation, or other action of the Federal Government."

#### Findings

Pub. L. 118–206, §1(a), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2699, provided that: "Congress finds that—

"(1) bald eagles are a historical symbol of the United States representing independence, strength, and freedom;

"(2) the bald eagle is unique to North America;

"(3) on June 20, 1782, the bald eagle was adopted as the Coat of Arms for the United States Great Seal;

"(4) the bald eagle image remains the leading insignia for all branches of the United States military;

"(5) the bald eagle is the leading image on thousands of Federal Government branches, departments, and agencies, including the President, Vice-President, Congress, and Senate;

"(6) the bald eagle serves as the logo, trademark, and brand icon for businesses, nonprofit organizations, and sports teams across the United States;

"(7) bald eagles are integral to the spiritual lives and sacred belief systems of most Indigenous peoples and Tribal communities;

"(8) bald eagles are prevalent in belief, practice, stories, ceremonies, dance, traditions, songs, regalia, flags, insignias, arts, craft, and other forms of spiritual reverence;

"(9) bald eagle festivals are—

"(A) held in over 100 locations across the United States; and

"(B) key components of community engagement;

"(10) the bald eagle is prevalent on—

"(A) hundreds of United States stamps; and

"(B) many United States coins and currencies;

"(11) the bald eagle is a primary component and symbol on Federal and State flags throughout the United States; and

"(12) joint efforts of the Federal Government and State and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and individuals have contributed to the successful recovery of the bald eagle."