### §774. Migrant and seasonal farmworkers

#### (a) Grants

#### (1) Authority

The Commissioner, subject to the provisions of section 776 of this title, may make grants to eligible entities to pay up to 90 percent of the cost of projects or demonstration programs for the provision of vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities who are migrant or seasonal farmworkers, as determined in accordance with rules prescribed by the Secretary of Labor, and to the family members who are residing with such individuals (whether or not such family members are individuals with disabilities).

#### (2) Eligible entities

To be eligible to receive a grant under paragraph (1), an entity shall be—

(A) a State designated agency;

(B) a nonprofit agency working in collaboration with a State agency described in subparagraph (A); or

(C) a local agency working in collaboration with a State agency described in subparagraph (A).

#### (3) Maintenance and transportation

#### (A) In general

Amounts provided under a grant under this section may be used to provide for the maintenance of and transportation for individuals and family members described in paragraph (1) as necessary for the rehabilitation of such individuals.

#### (B) Requirement

Maintenance payments under this paragraph shall be provided in a manner consistent with any maintenance payments provided to other individuals with disabilities in the State under this chapter.

#### (4) Assurance of cooperation

To be eligible to receive a grant under this section an entity shall provide assurances (satisfactory to the Commissioner) that in the provision of services under the grant there will be appropriate cooperation between the grantee and other public or nonprofit agencies and organizations having special skills and experience in the provision of services to migrant or seasonal farmworkers or their families.

#### (5) Coordination with other programs

The Commissioner shall administer this section in coordination with other programs serving migrant and seasonal farmworkers, including programs under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), section 254b of title 42, the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act (29 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), and the Workforce Investment Act of 1998.

#### (b) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section, for each of the fiscal years 1999 through 2003.

(Pub. L. 93–112, title III, §304, as added Pub. L. 105–220, title IV, §406, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1195.)

#### References in Text

The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (a)(5), is Pub. L. 89–10, Apr. 11, 1965, 79 Stat. 27, as amended. Title I of the Act is classified generally to subchapter I (§6301 et seq.) of chapter 70 of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6301 of Title 20 and Tables.

The Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(5), is Pub. L. 97–470, Jan. 14, 1983, 96 Stat. 2584, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 20 (§1801 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1801 of this title and Tables.

The Workforce Investment Act of 1998, referred to in subsec. (a)(5), is Pub. L. 105–220, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 936, as amended. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9201 of Title 20, Education, and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to this section were contained in section 777b of this title prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 105–220.

A prior section 774, Pub. L. 93–112, title III, §304, formerly title II, §203, Sept. 26, 1973, 87 Stat. 376, renumbered and amended, which related to Federal grants, contracts, and programs for training in rehabilitation services, was renumbered section 302 of Pub. L. 93–112, by Pub. L. 102–569, title III, §301(b)(3), Oct. 29, 1992, 106 Stat. 4411, and transferred to section 771a of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 105–220.

Another prior section 774, Pub. L. 93–112, title III, §304, Sept. 26, 1973, 87 Stat. 381; Pub. L. 93–516, title I, §§106, 111(i)–(k), Dec. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 1619, 1621; Pub. L. 93–651, title I, §§106, 111(i)–(k), Nov. 21, 1974, 89 Stat. 2–4, 2–6; Pub. L. 94–230, §§6, 11(b)(9), Mar. 15, 1976, 90 Stat. 212, 213, related to special projects and demonstrations, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 95–602, title I, §109(1), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2962.