### §13–1. Violations, prohibition against dealings in motion picture box office receipts or onion futures; punishment

(a) No contract for the sale of motion picture box office receipts (or any index, measure, value, or data related to such receipts) or onions for future delivery shall be made on or subject to the rules of any board of trade in the United States. The terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as when used in the Commodity Exchange Act \[7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.\].

(b) Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $5,000.

(Pub. L. 85–839, §1, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 1013; Pub. L. 111–203, title VII, §721(e)(10), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1672.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Commodity Exchange Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 369, 42 Stat. 998, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Commodity Exchange Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2010**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 111–203 inserted "motion picture box office receipts (or any index, measure, value, or data related to such receipts) or" after "sale of".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the later of 360 days after July 21, 2010, or, to the extent a provision of subtitle A (§§711–754) of title VII of Pub. L. 111–203 requires a rulemaking, not less than 60 days after publication of the final rule or regulation implementing such provision of subtitle A, see section 754 of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 1a of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 85–839, §2, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 1013, provided that: "This Act \[enacting this section\] shall take effect thirty days after its enactment \[Aug. 28, 1958\]."