### §10384. Limitation on use of funds

#### (a) Nonsupplanting requirement

Funds made available under this subchapter to States or units of local government shall not be used to supplant State or local funds, or, in the case of Indian tribal governments, funds supplied by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, but shall be used to increase the amount of funds that would, in the absence of Federal funds received under this subchapter, be made available from State or local sources, or in the case of Indian tribal governments, from funds supplied by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

#### (b) Non-Federal costs

#### (1) In general

States and units of local government may use assets received through the Assets Forfeiture equitable sharing program to provide the non-Federal share of the cost of programs, projects, and activities funded under this subchapter.

#### (2) Indian tribal governments

Funds appropriated by the Congress for the activities of any agency of an Indian tribal government or the Bureau of Indian Affairs performing law enforcement functions on any Indian lands may be used to provide the non-Federal share of the cost of programs or projects funded under this subchapter.

#### (c) Hiring costs

Funding provided under this subchapter for hiring or rehiring a career law enforcement officer may not exceed $75,000, unless the Attorney General grants a waiver from this limitation.

(Pub. L. 90–351, title I, §1704, as added Pub. L. 103–322, title I, §10003(a)(3), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1812.)

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 3796dd–3 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.