### §1801a. Appointment and term of service of Architect of the Capitol

#### (a) Appointment

The Architect of the Capitol shall be appointed, without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties of the office, upon a majority vote of a congressional commission (referred to in this section as the "commission") consisting of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the majority leader of the Senate, the minority leaders of the House of Representatives and Senate, the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, and the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

#### (b) Term of service

The Architect of the Capitol shall be appointed for a term of 10 years and, upon a majority vote of the members of the commission, may be reappointed for additional 10-year terms.

#### (c) Removal

The Architect of the Capitol may be removed from office at any time upon a majority vote of the members of the commission.

#### (d) Omitted

#### (e) Effective date

This section, and the amendments made by this section, shall apply with respect to appointments made on or after December 22, 2023.

(Pub. L. 118–31, div. E, title LVII, §5702, Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 960.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For the amendments made by this section, referred to in subsec. (e), see Codification note below.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 5702 of Pub. L. 118–31. Subsec. (d)(1) of section 5702 of Pub. L. 118–31 repealed section 1801 of this title. Subsec. (d)(2) of section 5702 of Pub. L. 118–31 amended section 1811 of this title.