### §3006. Repealing and savings provisions

All laws, orders, and regulations inconsistent with the provisions of this title [1](#3006_1_target) are repealed insofar as they are inconsistent with the powers, duties, and responsibilities enacted hereby: *Provided*, That the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense under this title [1](#3006_1_target) shall be administered in conformance with the policy and requirements for administration of budgetary and fiscal matters in the Government generally, including accounting and financial reporting, and that nothing in this title [1](#3006_1_target) shall be construed as eliminating or modifying the powers, duties, and responsibilities of any other department, agency, or officer of the Government in connection with such matters, but no such department, agency, or officer shall exercise any such powers, duties, or responsibilities in a manner that will render ineffective the provisions of this title.[1](#3006_1_target)

(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title IV, §411, as added Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, §11, 63 Stat. 590.)

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in text, means title IV of act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, as added Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, §11, 63 Stat. 585. Section 411 of title IV was formerly classified to section 412 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as section 3006 of this title. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 412 of chapter 15 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering in chapter 44 of this title, and to section 172j of former Title 5 prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by Pub. L. 89–554, §1, Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 378.

[1 So in original. See References in Text note below.](#3006_1)