### §16274a. University Nuclear Leadership Program

#### (a) In general

The Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration, and the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall jointly establish a program, to be known as the "University Nuclear Leadership Program".

#### (b) Use of funds

#### (1) In general

Except as provided in paragraph (2), amounts made available to carry out the Program shall be used to provide financial assistance for scholarships, fellowships, and research and development projects at institutions of higher education in areas relevant to the programmatic mission of the applicable Federal agency, with an emphasis on providing the financial assistance with respect to research, development, demonstration, and commercial application activities relevant to civilian advanced nuclear reactors including, but not limited to—

(A) relevant fuel cycle technologies;

(B) project management; and

(C) advanced construction, manufacturing, and fabrication methods.

#### (2) Exception

Notwithstanding paragraph (1), amounts made available to carry out the Program may be used to provide financial assistance for a scholarship, fellowship, or multiyear research and development project that does not align directly with a programmatic mission of the Department of Energy, if the activity for which assistance is provided would facilitate the maintenance of the discipline of nuclear science or engineering, which may include nontechnical nuclear research..[1](#16274a_1_target)

#### (c) Definitions

In this section:

#### (1) Advanced nuclear reactor; institution of higher education

The terms "advanced nuclear reactor" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings given those terms in section 16271 of this title.

#### (2) Program

The term "Program" means the University Nuclear Leadership Program established under this section.

#### (3) Nontechnical nuclear research

The term "nontechnical nuclear research" means research with specializations such as social sciences or law that can support an increase in community engagement, participation, and confidence in nuclear energy systems, including the navigation of the licensing required for advanced reactor deployment, aligned with the objectives in section 16271(a)(2) of this title.

#### (d) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025—

(1) $45,000,000 to the Secretary of Energy, of which $15,000,000 shall be for use by the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration; and

(2) $15,000,000 to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

(Pub. L. 111–8, div. C, title III, §313, Mar. 11, 2009, 123 Stat. 627; Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title II, §2003(e), Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2465; Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, §10745(b), Aug. 9, 2022, 136 Stat. 1721.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2009, and also as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009, and not as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2022**—Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 117–167, §10745(b)(1), inserted ", which may include nontechnical nuclear research." after "engineering".

Subsec. (c)(3). Pub. L. 117–167, §10745(b)(2), added par. (3).

Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 117–167, §10745(b)(3), substituted "$45,000,000" for "$30,000,000".

**2020**—Pub. L. 116–260 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to Integrated University Program.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Purpose of 2022 Amendment

Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, §10745(a), Aug. 9, 2022, 136 Stat. 1721, provided that: "The purpose of this section \[amending this section\] is to support a diverse workforce for the complex landscape associated with effective and equitable development of advanced nuclear energy technologies, including interdisciplinary research to enable positive impacts and avoid potential negative impacts across the lifespan of nuclear energy technologies."

[1 So in original.](#16274a_1)