### §16272. Nuclear energy research programs

#### (a) Nuclear Energy Research Initiative

The Secretary shall carry out a Nuclear Energy Research Initiative for research and development related to nuclear energy.

#### (b) Nuclear Energy Systems Support Program

The Secretary shall carry out a Nuclear Energy Systems Support Program to support research and development activities addressing reliability, availability, productivity, component aging, safety, and security of existing nuclear power plants.

#### (c) Generation IV Nuclear Energy Systems Initiative

#### (1) In general

The Secretary shall carry out a Generation IV Nuclear Energy Systems Initiative to develop an overall technology plan for and to support research and development necessary to make an informed technical decision about the most promising candidates for eventual commercial application.

#### (2) Administration

In conducting the Initiative, the Secretary shall examine advanced proliferation-resistant and passively safe reactor designs, including designs that—

(A) are economically competitive with other electric power generation plants;

(B) have higher efficiency, lower cost, and improved safety compared to reactors in operation on August 8, 2005;

(C) use fuels that are proliferation resistant and have substantially reduced production of high-level waste per unit of output; and

(D) use improved instrumentation.

#### (d) Reactor production of hydrogen

The Secretary shall carry out research to examine designs for high-temperature reactors capable of producing large-scale quantities of hydrogen.

(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, §952, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 885; Pub. L. 115–248, §2(b)(1), Sept. 28, 2018, 132 Stat. 3155.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsecs. (c) to (e). Pub. L. 115–248 redesignated subsecs. (d) and (e) as (c) and (d), respectively, and struck out former subsec. (c) which related to establishment and administration of a Nuclear Power 2010 Program.