### §3103. Civilian management of the defense acquisition system

(a) Responsibility of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.—Subject to the authority, direction and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall be responsible for the management of the defense acquisition system and shall exercise such control of the system and perform such duties as are necessary to ensure the successful and efficient operation of the defense acquisition system, including the duties enumerated and assigned to the Under Secretary elsewhere in this title.

(b) Responsibility of the Service Acquisition Executives.—Subject to the direction of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment on matters pertaining to acquisition, and subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the military department concerned, a service acquisition executive of a military department shall be responsible for the management of elements of the defense acquisition system in that military department and shall exercise such control of the system and perform such duties as are necessary to ensure the successful and efficient operation of such elements of the defense acquisition system.

(Added Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §861(a), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4288, §2546; amended Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, §902(78), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1552; renumbered §3103, Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1808(a)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4159.)

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283 renumbered section 2546 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.