### §253. Professional responsibility and quality review

The Secretary shall be responsible for—

(1) conducting investigations of noncriminal allegations of misconduct, corruption, and fraud involving any employee of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement that are not subject to investigation by the Inspector General for the Department;

(2) inspecting the operations of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and providing assessments of the quality of the operations of such agency as a whole and each of its components; and

(3) providing an analysis of the management of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

(Pub. L. 107–296, title IV, §443, Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2194; Pub. L. 114–125, title VIII, §802(g)(1)(B)(v)(II), Feb. 24, 2016, 130 Stat. 212; Pub. L. 118–96, §3(b)(3), Oct. 1, 2024, 138 Stat. 1571.)

#### Amendment of Section

For termination of amendment by section 6 of Pub. L. 118–96, see Termination Date of 2024 Amendment note below.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2024**—Par. (2). Pub. L. 118–96, §§3(b)(3), 6, temporarily substituted "such agency" for "such bureau". See Termination Date of 2024 Amendment note below.

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–125 substituted "Secretary" for "Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security" in introductory provisions and "U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement" for "the Bureau of Border Security" in pars. (1) to (3).

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination Date of 2024 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 118–96 to cease to have force or effect beginning on Oct. 1, 2030, see section 6 of Pub. L. 118–96, set out as a note under section 252 of this title.