### §7626. Aircraft supplies and services: foreign military or air attaché

Under such conditions as he may prescribe, the Secretary of the Army may provide for the sale of fuel, oil, and other supplies for use in aircraft operated by a foreign military or air attaché accredited to the United States, and for the furnishing of mechanical service and other assistance to such aircraft. Shelter may be furnished to such aircraft, but only without charge.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 259, §4626; renumbered §7626, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(d), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1839.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*         | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                              |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| 4626              | 22:259 (less last sentence). | May 31, 1939, ch. 161 (less last sentence), 53 Stat. 795. |

The last sentence is substituted for the words "except for shelter for which no charge shall be made". The words "and equipment" are omitted as covered by the word "supplies". 22:259 (last 22 words of 2d sentence) is omitted to reflect Title IV of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended (63 Stat. 585), which authorized the Secretary of Defense to prescribe regulations governing the use and sale of certain inventories at cost, including applicable administrative expenses. (See opinion of the Assistant General Counsel (Fiscal Matters) of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, January 4, 1955.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 4626 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.