### §7622. Rations: commissioned officers in field

Commissioned officers of the Army serving in the field may buy rations for their own use, on credit, from any officer designated by the Secretary of the Army. Amounts due for these purchases shall be reported monthly to the officer of the Army designated by the Secretary.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 258, §4622; renumbered §7622, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(d), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1839.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                              |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| 4622              | 10:1232.             | R.S. 1145; June 28, 1950, ch. 383, §402(a), 64 Stat. 272. |

The words "at cost prices" are omitted to reflect Title IV of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended (63 Stat. 585), which authorized the Secretary of Defense to prescribe regulations governing the use and sale of certain inventories at cost, including applicable administrative expenses. (See opinion of the Assistant General Counsel (Fiscal Matters) of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, January 4, 1955.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 7622 and 7623 were renumbered sections 8822 and 8823 of this title, respectively.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 4622 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.