### §7627. Supplies: educational institutions

Under such regulations as the Secretary of the Army may prescribe, supplies and military publications procured for the Army may be sold to any educational institution to which an officer of the Army is detailed as professor of military science and tactics, for the use of its military students. Sales under this section shall be for cash.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 259, §4627; renumbered §7627, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(d), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1839.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*    | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                         |
| ----------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 4627              | 10:1179 (less proviso). | July 17, 1914, ch. 149 (less proviso), 38 Stat. 512. |

The words "procured for" are substituted for the words "as are furnished to". The words "stores \* \* \* matériel of war" are omitted as covered by the word "supplies". The words "the price listed to the Army" are omitted to reflect Title IV of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended (63 Stat. 585), which authorized the Secretary of Defense to prescribe regulations governing the use and sale of certain inventories at cost, including applicable administrative expenses. (See opinion of the Assistant General Counsel (Fiscal Matters) of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, January 4, 1955.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 4627 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.