### §247b–13. Prenatal and postnatal health

#### (a) In general

The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall carry out programs—

(1) to collect, analyze, and make available data on prenatal smoking, alcohol and illegal drug use, including data on the implications of such activities and on the incidence and prevalence of such activities and their implications;

(2) to conduct applied epidemiological research on the prevention of prenatal and postnatal smoking, alcohol and illegal drug use;

(3) to support, conduct, and evaluate the effectiveness of educational and cessation programs; and

(4) to provide information and education to the public on the prevention and implications of prenatal and postnatal smoking, alcohol and illegal drug use.

#### (b) Grants

In carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary may award grants to and enter into contracts with States, local governments, scientific and academic institutions, federally qualified health centers, and other public and nonprofit entities, and may provide technical and consultative assistance to such entities.

#### (c) Authorization of appropriations

For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, §317L, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title IX, §911, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1127.)

#### Improving Data and the Public Health Response

Pub. L. 114–91, §4, Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 725, provided that: "The Secretary \[of Health and Human Services\] may continue activities, as appropriate, related to—

"(1) providing technical assistance to support States and Federally recognized Indian Tribes in collecting information on neonatal abstinence syndrome through the utilization of existing surveillance systems and collaborating with States and Federally recognized Indian Tribes to improve the quality, consistency, and collection of such data; and

"(2) providing technical assistance to support States in implementing effective public health measures, such as disseminating information to educate the public, health care providers, and other stakeholders on prenatal opioid use and neonatal abstinence syndrome."