### §3839aa–8. Conservation innovation grants and payments

#### (a) Competitive grants for innovative conservation approaches

#### (1) Grants

Out of the funds made available to carry out this part, the Secretary may pay the cost of competitive grants that are intended to stimulate innovative approaches to leveraging the Federal investment in environmental enhancement and protection, in conjunction with agricultural production or forest resource management, through the program.

#### (2) Use

The Secretary may provide grants under this subsection to governmental and non-governmental organizations and persons, on a competitive basis, to carry out projects that—

(A) involve producers who are eligible for payments or technical assistance under the program;

(B) leverage Federal funds made available to carry out the program under this part with matching funds provided by State and local governments and private organizations to promote environmental enhancement and protection in conjunction with agricultural production;

(C) ensure efficient and effective transfer of innovative technologies and approaches demonstrated through projects that receive funding under this section, such as market systems for pollution reduction and practices for the storage of carbon in soil; and

(D) provide environmental and resource conservation benefits through increased participation by producers of specialty crops.

#### (b) Air quality concerns from agricultural operations

#### (1) Implementation assistance

The Secretary shall provide payments under this subsection to producers to implement practices to address air quality concerns from agricultural operations and to meet Federal, State, and local regulatory requirements. The funds shall be made available on the basis of air quality concerns in a State and shall be used to provide payments to producers that are cost effective and reflect innovative technologies.

#### (2) Funding

Of the funds made available to carry out this part, the Secretary shall carry out this subsection using $37,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2012.

(Pub. L. 99–198, title XII, §1240H, as added Pub. L. 107–171, title II, §2301, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 257; amended Pub. L. 110–234, title II, §2509, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1064; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title II, §2509, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1792.)

#### Codification

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by Pub. L. 110–234 were repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3839aa–8, Pub. L. 99–198, title XII, §1240H, as added Pub. L. 104–127, title III, §334, Apr. 4, 1996, 110 Stat. 1002, related to temporary administration of environmental quality incentives program, prior to the general amendment of this part by Pub. L. 107–171.

#### Amendments

**2008**—Pub. L. 110–246, §2509, amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to conservation innovation grants.

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8701 of Title 7, Agriculture.