### §1300i–1. Reservations; partition and additions

#### (a) Partition of the joint reservation

(1) Effective with the publication in the Federal Register of the Hoopa tribal resolution as provided in paragraph (2), the joint reservation shall be partitioned as provided in subsections (b) and (c).

(2)(A) The partition of the joint reservation as provided in this subsection, and the ratification and confirmation as provided by section 1300i–7 of this title, shall not become effective unless, within 60 days after October 31, 1988, the Hoopa Valley Tribe shall adopt, and transmit to the Secretary, a tribal resolution:

(i) waiving any claim such tribe may have against the United States arising out of the provisions of this subchapter, and

(ii) affirming tribal consent to the contribution of Hoopa Escrow monies to the Settlement Fund, and for their use as payments to the Yurok Tribe, and to individual Yuroks, as provided in this subchapter.

  

(B) The Secretary, after determining the validity of the resolution transmitted pursuant to subparagraph (A), shall cause such resolution to be printed in the Federal Register.

#### (b) Hoopa Valley Reservation

Effective with the partition of the joint reservation as provided in subsection (a), the area of land known as the "square" (defined as the Hoopa Valley Reservation established under section 2 of the Act of April 8, 1864 (13 Stat. 40), the Executive Order of June 23, 1876, and Executive Order 1480 of February 17, 1912) shall thereafter be recognized and established as the Hoopa Valley Reservation. The unallotted trust land and assets of the Hoopa Valley Reservation shall thereafter be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Hoopa Valley Tribe.

#### (c) Yurok Reservation

(1) Effective with the partition of the joint reservation as provided in subsection (a), the area of land known as the "extension" (defined as the reservation extension under the Executive Order of October 16, 1891, but excluding the Resighini Rancheria) shall thereafter be recognized and established as the Yurok Reservation. The unallotted trust land and assets of the Yurok Reservation shall thereafter be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Yurok Tribe.

(2) Subject to all valid existing rights and subject to the adoption of a resolution of the Interim Council of the Yurok Tribe as provided in section 1300i–8(d)(2) of this title, all right, title, and interest of the United States—

(A) to all national forest system lands within the Yurok Reservation, and

(B) to that portion of the Yurok Experimental Forest described as Township 14 N., Range 1 E., Section 28, Lot 6: that portion of Lot 6 east of U.S. Highway 101 and west of the Yurok Experimental Forest, comprising 14 acres more or less and including all permanent structures thereon, shall thereafter be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Yurok Tribe and shall be part of the Yurok Reservation.

  

(3)(A) Pursuant to the authority of sections 465 and 467 of this title, the Secretary may acquire from willing sellers lands or interests in land, including rights-of-way for access to trust lands, for the Yurok Tribe or its members, and such lands may be declared to be part of the Yurok Reservation.

(B) From amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 13 of this title, the Secretary shall use not less than $5,000,000 for the purpose of acquiring lands or interests in lands pursuant to subparagraph (A). No lands or interests in lands may be acquired outside the Yurok Reservation with such funds except lands adjacent to and contiguous with the Yurok Reservation or for purposes of exchange for lands within the reservation.

(4) The—

(A) apportionment of funds to the Yurok Tribe as provided in sections 1300i–3 and 1300i–6 of this title;

(B) the land transfers pursuant to paragraph (2);

(C) the land acquisition authorities in paragraph (3); and

(D) the organizational authorities of section 1300i–8 of this title shall not be effective unless and until the Interim Council of the Yurok Tribe has adopted a resolution waiving any claim such tribe may have against the United States arising out of the provisions of this subchapter.

#### (d) Boundary clarifications or corrections

(1) The boundary between the Hoopa Valley Reservation and the Yurok Reservation, after the partition of the joint reservation as provided in this section, shall be the line established by the Bissel-Smith survey.

(2) Upon the partition of the joint reservation as provided in this section, the Secretary shall publish a description of the boundaries of the Hoopa Valley Reservation and Yurok Reservation in the Federal Register.

#### (e) Management of the Yurok Reservation

The Secretary shall be responsible for the management of the unallotted trust land and assets of the Yurok Reservation until such time as the Yurok Tribe has been organized pursuant to section 1300i–8 of this title. Thereafter, those lands and assets shall be administered as tribal trust land and the Yurok reservation governed by the Yurok Tribe as other reservations are governed by the tribes of those reservations.

#### (f) Criminal and civil jurisdiction

The Hoopa Valley Reservation and Yurok Reservation shall be subject to section 1360 of title 28; [1](#1300i-1_1_target) section 1162 of title 18, and section 1323(a) of this title.

(Pub. L. 100–580, §2, Oct. 31, 1988, 102 Stat. 2925.)

#### References in Text

Section 2 of the Act of April 8, 1864, referred to in subsec. (b), is section 2 of act Apr. 8, 1864, ch. 48, 13 Stat. 40, which was not classified to the Code.

Executive Order of June 23, 1876, and Executive Order 1480 of February 17, 1912, referred to in subsec. (b), are not classified to the Code.

Executive Order of October 16, 1891, referred to in subsec. (c), is not classified to the Code.

#### Hoopa Valley Reservation South Boundary Adjustment

Pub. L. 105–79, Nov. 13, 1997, 111 Stat. 1527, as amended by Pub. L. 105–256, §6, Oct. 14, 1998, 112 Stat. 1897, provided that:

#### "SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

"This Act may be cited as the 'Hoopa Valley Reservation South Boundary Adjustment Act'.

#### "SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF LANDS WITHIN SIX RIVERS NATIONAL FOREST FOR HOOPA VALLEY TRIBE.

"(a) Transfer.—All right, title, and interest in and to the lands described in subsection (b) shall hereafter be administered by the Secretary of the Interior and be held in trust by the United States for the Hoopa Valley Tribe. The lands are hereby declared part of the Hoopa Valley Reservation. Upon the inclusion of such lands in the Hoopa Valley Reservation, Forest Service system roads numbered 8N03 and 7N51 and the Trinity River access road which is a spur off road numbered 7N51, shall be Indian reservation roads, as defined in section 101(a) of title 23 of the United States Code.

"(b) Lands Described.—The lands referred to in subsection (a) are those portions of Townships 7 North and 8 North, Ranges 5 East and 6 East, Humboldt Meridian, California, within a boundary beginning at a point on the current south boundary of the Hoopa Valley Indian Reservation, marked and identified as 'Post H.V.R. No. 8' on the Plat of the Hoopa Valley Indian Reservation prepared from a field survey conducted by C.T. Bissel, Augustus T. Smith, and C.A. Robinson, Deputy Surveyors, approved by the Surveyor General, H. Pratt, March 18, 1892, and extending from said point on a bearing of north 73 degrees 50 minutes east, until intersecting with a line beginning at a point marked as 'Post H.V.R. No. 3' on such survey and extending on a bearing of south 14 degrees 36 minutes east, comprising 2,641 acres more or less.

"(c) Boundary Adjustment.—The boundary of the Six Rivers National Forest in the State of California is hereby adjusted to exclude the lands to be held in trust for the benefit of the Hoopa Valley Tribe pursuant to this section.

"(d) Survey.—The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management, shall survey and monument that portion of the boundary of the Hoopa Valley Reservation established by the addition of the lands described in subsection (b).

"(e) Settlement of Claims.—The transfer of lands to trust status under this section extinguishes the following claims by the Hoopa Valley Tribe:

"(1) All claims on land now administered as part of the Six Rivers National Forest based on the allegation of error in establishing the boundaries of the Hoopa Valley Reservation, as those boundaries were configured before the date of the enactment of this Act \[Nov. 13, 1997\].

"(2) All claims of failure to pay just compensation for a taking under the fifth amendment to the United States Constitution, if such claims are based on activities, occurring before the date of the enactment of this Act, related to the lands transferred to trust status under this section."

[1 So in original. The semicolon probably should be a comma.](#1300i-1_1)