### §8865. Sale of prize

(a) The court shall order a sale of prize property if—

(1) the property has been condemned;

(2) the court finds, at any stage of the proceedings, that the property is perishable, liable to deteriorate, or liable to depreciate in value; or

(3) the cost of keeping the property is disproportionate to its value.

  

(b) The court may order a sale of the prize property if, after the return-day on the libel, all the parties in interest who have appeared in the cause agree to it.

(c) An appeal does not prevent the order of a sale under this section or the execution of such an order.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 479, §7665; renumbered §8865, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(9), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1837.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| 7665              | 34 U.S.C. 1143.      | R.S. 4627.                   |

In subsection (a) the word "perishing" is omitted as surplusage. The words "in value" are added after "depreciate" for clarity.

In subsection (c) the words "An appeal does not prevent" are substituted for the words "no appeal shall operate to prevent".

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7665 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.