### §8871. Payment of costs and expenses from prize fund

(a) Payment may not be made from a prize fund except upon the order of the court. The court may, at any time, order the payment, from the deposit made with the Treasurer or public depositary in the cause, of costs or charges accrued and allowed.

(b) When the cause is finally disposed of, the court shall order the Treasurer or public depositary to pay the costs and charges allowed and unpaid. If the final decree is for restitution, or if there is no money subject to the order of the court in the cause, costs or charges allowed by the court and not paid by the claimants shall be paid out of the fund for paying the expenses of suits in which the United States is a party or is interested.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 480, §7671; renumbered §8871, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(9), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1837.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*               | *Source (Statutes at Large)*  |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| 7671              | 34 U.S.C. 1150 (less 2d sentence). | R.S. 4640 (less 2d sentence). |

In subsection (b) the words "or orders" after "order" are omitted as surplusage. The words "a charge upon and" are omitted as surplusage.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7671 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.