### §8864. Delivery of property on stipulation

(a) Prize property may be delivered to a claimant on stipulation, deposit, or other security, if—

(1) the claimant satisfies the court that the property has a peculiar and intrinsic value to him, independent of its market value;

(2) the court is satisfied that the rights and interests of the United States or of other claimants will not be prejudiced;

(3) an opportunity is given to the United States attorney and the naval prize commissioner or the naval special prize commissioner to be heard as to the appointment of appraisers; and

(4) a satisfactory appraisal is made.

  

(b) Money collected on a stipulation, or deposited instead of it, that does not represent costs shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States or a public depositary in the same manner as proceeds of a sale.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 479, §7664; renumbered §8864, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(9), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1837.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| 7664              | 34 U.S.C. 1142.      | R.S. 4626.                   |

34 U.S.C. 1142 and this section reflect the Act of March 3, 1899, ch. 413, §13, 30 Stat. 1007, which repealed laws authorizing distribution of prize proceeds to captors, and the Act of May 29, 1920, ch. 214, §1, 41 Stat. 654, which requires substitution of "Treasurer of the United States or public depositary" for "assistant treasurer".

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7664 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.