### §8482. Trail inventory

#### (a) Assessment

Not later than 7 years after January 4, 2025, the Secretary concerned shall—

(1) conduct a comprehensive assessment of high-priority trails, in accordance with subsection (b), on Federal recreational lands and waters under the jurisdiction of the respective Secretary concerned, including measuring each trail's—

(A) average and minimum tread width;

(B) average and maximum running slope;

(C) average and maximum cross slope;

(D) tread type; and

(E) length; and

  

(2) make information about such high-priority trails available (including through the use of prominently displayed links) on public websites of—

(A) each of the Federal land management agencies; and

(B) each relevant unit and subunit of the Federal land management agencies.

#### (b) Selection

The Secretary concerned shall select high-priority trails to be assessed under subsection (a)(1)—

(1) in consultation with stakeholders, including veterans organizations and organizations with expertise or experience providing outdoor recreation opportunities to individuals with disabilities;

(2) in a geographically equitable manner; and

(3) in no fewer than 15 units or subunits managed by the Secretary concerned.

#### (c) Inclusion of current assessments

As part of the assessment required under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary concerned may, to the extent practicable, rely on assessments completed or data gathered prior to January 4, 2025.

#### (d) Public information

#### (1) In general

Not later than 7 years after January 4, 2025, the Secretary concerned shall identify opportunities to replace signage and other publicly available information, including web page information, related to such high-priority trails and consistent with the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151 et seq.) and section 794 of title 29 at high-priority trails covered by the assessment required under subsection (a)(1).

#### (2) Tread obstacles

As part of the assessment required under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary may, to the extent practicable, include photographs or descriptions of tread obstacles and barriers.

#### (e) Assistive technology specification

In publishing information about each trail under this subsection, the Secretary concerned shall make public information about trails that do not meet the Architectural Barriers Act accessibility guidelines but could otherwise provide outdoor recreation opportunities to individuals with disabilities through the use of certain assistive technology.

(Pub. L. 118–234, title II, §212, Jan. 4, 2025, 138 Stat. 2881.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is Pub. L. 90–480, Aug. 12, 1968, 82 Stat. 718, which is classified generally to chapter 51 (§4151 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4151 of Title 42 and Tables.

Section 794 of title 29, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), was in the original a reference to section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and was translated as meaning section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93–112, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.