### §3802. Payment

(a) Preference for Performance-Based Payments.—Whenever practicable, payments under section 3801 of this title shall be made using performance-based payments on any of the following bases:

(1) Performance measured by objective, quantifiable methods such as delivery of acceptable items, work measurement, or statistical process controls.

(2) Accomplishment of events defined in the program management plan.

(3) Other quantifiable measures of results.

  

(b) Basis for performance-based payments.—Performance-based payments shall not be conditioned upon costs incurred in contract performance but on the achievement of performance outcomes listed in subsection (a).

(c) Contractor Accounting Systems.—

(1) In order to receive performance-based payments, a contractor's accounting system shall be in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and there shall be no requirement for a contractor to develop Government-unique accounting systems or practices as a prerequisite for agreeing to receive performance-based payments.

(2) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to grant the Defense Contract Audit Agency the authority to audit compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

  

(d) Payment Amount.—Payments made under section 3801 of this title may not exceed the unpaid contract price.

(e) Eligibility of Nontraditional Defense Contractors.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that nontraditional defense contractors and other private sector companies are eligible for performance-based payments, consistent with best commercial practices.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1834(a), (c), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4234, 4235.)

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.