### §108. Other laws extended to added lands

The provisions of the Act of March 2, 1899, entitled, "An Act to set aside a portion of certain lands in the State of Washington, now known as the 'Pacific Forest Reserve,' as a public park, to be known as the 'Mount Rainier National Park,' " the Act of June 10, 1916, entitled "An Act to accept the cession by the State of Washington of exclusive jurisdiction over the lands embraced within the Mount Rainier National Park, and for other purposes," the Act of August 25, 1916, entitled "An Act to establish a national park service, and for other purposes," [1](#108_1_target) and all Acts supplementary to and amendatory of said Acts are made applicable to and extended over the lands added to the park by section 107 of this title: *Provided*, That the provisions of the Federal Power Act \[16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.\], shall not apply to or extend over such lands.

(May 28, 1926, ch. 410, §2, 44 Stat. 669.)

#### References in Text

The Act of March 2, 1899, entitled, "An Act to set aside a portion of certain lands in the State of Washington, now known as the 'Pacific Forest Reserve,' as a public park, to be known as the 'Mount Rainier National Park,' ", referred to in text, is act Mar. 2, 1899, ch. 377, 30 Stat. 993, which enacted sections 91, 92, and 93 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The Act of June 10, 1916, entitled "An Act to accept the cession by the State of Washington of exclusive jurisdiction over the lands embraced within the Mount Rainier National Park, and for other purposes,", referred to in text, probably means act of June 30, 1916, ch. 197, 39 Stat. 243, which enacted sections 95, 98, and 99, and former sections 96, 97, and 100 to 105, of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The Act of August 25, 1916, entitled "An Act to establish a national park service, and for other purposes,", referred to in text, is act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408, 39 Stat. 535, known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and provisions set out as a note under section 100101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as section 1865(a) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54 by Pub. L. 113–287, §§3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3094, 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

The Federal Power Act, referred to in text, was in the original the "Act of June 10, 1920, entitled 'an Act to create a Federal power commission; to provide for the improvement of navigation, the development of water power; the use of the public lands in relation thereto; and to repeal section 18 of the River and Harbor Appropriation Act, approved August 8, 1917, and for other purposes' ", and was redesignated the Federal Power Act by section 791a of this title. The Federal Power Act is act June 10, 1920, ch. 285, 41 Stat. 1063, as amended, and is classified generally to chapter 12 (§791a et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 791a of this title and Tables.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#108_1)