### §14165. Definitions

In this part:

#### (1) Coordinator

The term "Coordinator" means the Blue Alert Coordinator of the Department of Justice designated under section 14165b(a) of this title.

#### (2) Blue Alert

The term "Blue Alert" means information sent through the network relating to—

(A) the serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer in the line of duty;

(B) an officer who is missing in connection with the officer's official duties; or

(C) an imminent and credible threat that an individual intends to cause the serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer.

#### (3) Blue Alert plan

The term "Blue Alert plan" means the plan of a State, unit of local government, or Federal agency participating in the network for the dissemination of information received as a Blue Alert.

#### (4) Law enforcement officer

The term "law enforcement officer" shall have the same meaning as in section 3796b of this title.

#### (5) Network

The term "network" means the Blue Alert communications network established by the Attorney General under section 14165a of this title.

#### (6) State

The term "State" means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(Pub. L. 114–12, §2, May 19, 2015, 129 Stat. 192.)

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015, and not as part of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 which enacted this chapter.