### §17254. Relation to Safe Drinking Water Act

The injection and geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide pursuant to this subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle shall be subject to the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.), including the provisions of part C of such Act (42 U.S.C. 300h et seq.; relating to protection of underground sources of drinking water). Nothing in this subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle imposes or authorizes the promulgation of any requirement that is inconsistent or in conflict with the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.) or regulations thereunder.

(Pub. L. 110–140, title VII, §706, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1710.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subtitle, referred to in text, is subtitle A (§§701–708) of title VII of Pub. L. 110–140, which enacted this part, amended section 16293 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 17001 of this title. For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 17001 of this title and Tables.

The Safe Drinking Water Act, referred to in text, is title XIV of act July 1, 1944, as added Dec. 16, 1974, Pub. L. 93–523, §2(a), 88 Stat. 1660, which is classified generally to subchapter XII (§300f et seq.) of chapter 6A of this title. Part C of the Act is classified generally to part C (§300h et seq.) of subchapter XII of chapter 6A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 201 of this title and Tables.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140, set out as a note under section 1824 of Title 2, The Congress.