### §2200g. Establishment

For the purposes of preparing selected students for public service in Department of Defense occupations relating to acquisition, science, engineering, or other civilian occupations determined by the Secretary of Defense, and to target critical skill gaps in the Department of Defense, the Secretary of Defense shall establish and maintain a Defense Civilian Training Corps program, organized into one or more units, at any accredited civilian educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees.

(Added Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title VIII, §860(a), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1513; amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, §1081(a)(4)(A), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3870.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283 substituted "§" for "SEC." in section designation.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Implementation Timeline

Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title VIII, §860(b), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1514, provided that:

"(1) Initial implementation.—Not later than February 15, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees \[Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives\] a plan and schedule to implement the Defense Civilian Training Corps program established under chapter 113 of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)) at one accredited civilian educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees not later than August 1, 2021. The plan shall include a list of critical skills gaps the program will address and recommendations for any legislative changes required for effective implementation of the program.

"(2) Expansion.—Not later than December 31, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees an expansion plan and schedule to expand the Defense Civilian Training Corps program to five accredited civilian educational institutions not later than August 1, 2022.

"(3) Full implementation.—Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a full implementation plan and schedule to expand the Defense Civilian Training Corps program to at least 20 accredited civilian educational institutions with not fewer than 400 members enrolled in the program not later than August 1, 2023."