### §16391. Improved technology transfer of energy technologies

#### (a) Technology Transfer Coordinator

The Secretary shall appoint a Technology Transfer Coordinator to be the principal advisor to the Secretary on all matters relating to technology transfer and commercialization.

#### (b) Qualifications

The Coordinator shall be an individual who, by reason of professional background and experience, is specially qualified to advise the Secretary on matters pertaining to technology transfer at the Department.

#### (c) Duties of the Coordinator

The Coordinator shall oversee—

(1) the activities of the Technology Transfer Working Group established under subsection (d);

(2) the expenditure of funds allocated for technology transfer within the Department;

(3) the activities of each technology partnership ombudsman appointed under section 7261c of this title; and

(4) efforts to engage private sector entities, including venture capital companies.

#### (d) Technology Transfer Working Group

The Secretary shall establish a Technology Transfer Working Group, which shall consist of representatives of the National Laboratories and single-purpose research facilities, to—

(1) coordinate technology transfer activities occurring at National Laboratories and single-purpose research facilities;

(2) exchange information about technology transfer practices, including alternative approaches to resolution of disputes involving intellectual property rights and other technology transfer matters; and

(3) develop and disseminate to the public and prospective technology partners information about opportunities and procedures for technology transfer with the Department, including opportunities and procedures related to alternative approaches to resolution of disputes involving intellectual property rights and other technology transfer matters.

#### (e) Technology Commercialization Fund

The Secretary shall establish an Energy Technology Commercialization Fund, using 0.9 percent of the amount made available to the Department for applied energy research, development, demonstration, and commercial application for each fiscal year based on future planned activities and the amount of the appropriations for the fiscal year, to be used to provide matching funds with private partners to promote promising energy technologies for commercial purposes.

#### (f) Technology transfer responsibility

Nothing in this section affects the technology transfer responsibilities of Federal employees under the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.).

#### (g) Early stage technology demonstration

The Secretary shall permit the directors of the National Laboratories to use funds authorized to support technology transfer within the Department to carry out early stage and precommercial technology demonstration activities to remove technology barriers that limit private sector interest and demonstrate potential commercial applications of any research and technologies arising from National Laboratory activities.

#### (h) Planning and reporting

#### (1) In general

Not later than 180 days after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a technology transfer execution plan.

#### (2) Updates

Each year after the submission of the plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to Congress an updated execution plan and reports that describe progress toward meeting goals set forth in the execution plan and the funds expended under subsection (e).

(Pub. L. 109–58, title X, §1001, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 926; Pub. L. 113–291, div. C, title XXXI, §3144, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3902; Pub. L. 115–246, title I, §102, Sept. 28, 2018, 132 Stat. 3131.)

#### References in Text

The Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, referred to in subsec. (f), is Pub. L. 96–480, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2311, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 63 (§3701 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3701 of Title 15 and Tables.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsecs. (g), (h). Pub. L. 115–246 added subsec. (g) and redesignated former subsec. (g) as (h).

**2014**—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 113–291 inserted "based on future planned activities and the amount of the appropriations for the fiscal year" after "each fiscal year".