### §3143. Production of oil and gas from Arctic National Wildlife Refuge prohibited

Production of oil and gas from the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is prohibited and no leasing or other development leading to production of oil and gas from the range shall be undertaken until authorized by an Act of Congress.

(Pub. L. 96–487, title X, §1003, Dec. 2, 1980, 94 Stat. 2452.)

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Oil and Gas Program

Pub. L. 115–97, title II, §20001, Dec. 22, 2017, 131 Stat. 2235, provided that:

"(a) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) Coastal plain.—The term 'Coastal Plain' means the area identified as the 1002 Area on the plates prepared by the United States Geological Survey entitled 'ANWR Map – Plate 1' and 'ANWR Map – Plate 2', dated October 24, 2017, and on file with the United States Geological Survey and the Office of the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior.

"(2) Secretary.—The term 'Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management.

"(b) Oil and Gas Program.—

"(1) In general.—Section 1003 of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3143) shall not apply to the Coastal Plain.

"(2) Establishment.—

"(A) In general.—The Secretary shall establish and administer a competitive oil and gas program for the leasing, development, production, and transportation of oil and gas in and from the Coastal Plain.

"(B) Purposes.—\[Amended section 303(2) of Pub. L. 96–487, listed in a table under section 668dd of this title.\]

"(3) Management.—Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Secretary shall manage the oil and gas program on the Coastal Plain in a manner similar to the administration of lease sales under the Naval Petroleum Reserves Production Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6501 et seq.) (including regulations).

"(4) Royalties.—Notwithstanding the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), the royalty rate for leases issued pursuant to this section shall be 16.67 percent.

"(5) Receipts.—Notwithstanding the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), of the amount of adjusted bonus, rental, and royalty receipts derived from the oil and gas program and operations on Federal land authorized under this section—

"(A) 50 percent shall be paid to the State of Alaska; and

"(B) the balance shall be deposited into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

"(c) 2 Lease Sales Within 10 Years.—

"(1) Requirement.—

"(A) In general.—Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall conduct not fewer than 2 lease sales area-wide under the oil and gas program under this section by not later than 10 years after the date of enactment of this Act \[Dec. 22, 2017\].

"(B) Sale acreages; schedule.—

"(i) Acreages.—The Secretary shall offer for lease under the oil and gas program under this section—

     "(I) not fewer than 400,000 acres area-wide in each lease sale; and

     "(II) those areas that have the highest potential for the discovery of hydrocarbons.

"(ii) Schedule.—The Secretary shall offer—

     "(I) the initial lease sale under the oil and gas program under this section not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of this Act; and

     "(II) a second lease sale under the oil and gas program under this section not later than 7 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

"(2) Rights-of-way.—The Secretary shall issue any rights-of-way or easements across the Coastal Plain for the exploration, development, production, or transportation necessary to carry out this section.

"(3) Surface development.—In administering this section, the Secretary shall authorize up to 2,000 surface acres of Federal land on the Coastal Plain to be covered by production and support facilities (including airstrips and any area covered by gravel berms or piers for support of pipelines) during the term of the leases under the oil and gas program under this section."