### §149. Cyber incident response plan

The Under Secretary appointed under section 113(a)(1)(H) of this title shall, in coordination with appropriate Federal departments and agencies, State and local governments, sector coordinating councils, information sharing and analysis organizations (as defined in section 131(5) of this title), owners and operators of critical infrastructure, and other appropriate entities and individuals, develop, regularly update, maintain, and exercise adaptable cyber incident response plans to address cybersecurity risks (as defined in section 148 [1](#149_1_target) of this title) to critical infrastructure.

(Pub. L. 107–296, title II, §227, as added Pub. L. 113–282, §7(a), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3070.)

#### References in Text

Section 148 of this title, referred to in text, was in the original "section 226" and was translated as meaning the section 226 of Pub. L. 107–296 as added by section 3(a) of Pub. L. 113–282, which is classified to section 148 of this title and defines "cybersecurity risk". Another section 226 of Pub. L. 107–296, as added by Pub. L. 113–277, is classified to section 147 of this title.

#### Rule of Construction

Pub. L. 113–282, §7(c), Dec. 18, 2014, 128 Stat. 3072, provided that: "Nothing in the amendment made by subsection (a) \[enacting this section and section 150 of this title\] or in subsection (b)(1) \[formerly classified as a note under section 3543 of Title 44, Public Printing and Documents, see now section 2(d)(1) of Pub. L. 113–283, set out as a note under section 3553 of Title 44\] shall be construed to alter any authority of a Federal agency or department."

[1 See References in Text note below.](#149_1)