### §2546a. Customer-oriented acquisition system

(a) Objective.—It shall be the objective of the defense acquisition system to meet the needs of its customers in the most cost-effective manner practicable. The acquisition policies, directives, and regulations of the Department of Defense shall be modified as necessary to ensure the development and implementation of a customer-oriented acquisition system.

(b) Customer.—The customer of the defense acquisition system is the armed force that will have primary responsibility for fielding the system or systems acquired. The customer is represented with regard to a major defense acquisition program by the Secretary of the military department concerned and the Chief of the armed force concerned.

(c) Role of Customer.—The customer of a major defense acquisition program shall be responsible for balancing resources against priorities on the acquisition program and ensuring that appropriate trade-offs are made among cost, schedule, technical feasibility, and performance on a continuing basis throughout the life of the acquisition program.

(Added Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title VIII, §802(a)(1), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 878.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1808(a)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4159, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section, as part of chapter 205 of this title as transferred and redesignated by section 1808(a)(1) of Pub. L. 116–283, is redesignated as section 3102 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.