### §231. Budgeting for construction of naval vessels: annual plan and certification

(a) Annual Naval Vessel Construction Plan and Certification.—The Secretary of Defense shall include with the defense budget materials for a fiscal year each of the following:

(1) A plan for the construction of naval vessels developed in accordance with this section for each of the following classes of ships: and [1](#231_1_target)

(A) Combatant and support vessels.

(B) Auxiliary vessels.

  

(2) A certification by the Secretary that both the budget for that fiscal year and the future-years defense program submitted to Congress in relation to such budget under section 221 of this title provide for funding of the construction of naval vessels at a level that is sufficient for the procurement of the vessels provided for in the plan under paragraph (1) on the schedule provided in that plan.

  

(b) Annual Naval Vessel Construction Plan.—(1) The annual naval vessel construction plan developed for a fiscal year for purposes of subsection (a)(1) shall be designed so that the naval vessel force provided for under that plan supports the national security strategy of the United States as set forth in the most recent national security strategy report of the President under section 108 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3043), except that, if at the time such plan is submitted with the defense budget materials for that fiscal year, a national security strategy report required under such section 108 has not been submitted to Congress as required by paragraph (2) or paragraph (3), if applicable, of subsection (a) of such section, then such annual plan shall be designed so that the naval vessel force provided for under that plan supports the ship force structure recommended in the report of the most recent quadrennial defense review.

(2) Each such naval vessel construction plan shall include the following:

(A) A detailed program for the construction of combatant and support vessels for the Navy over the next 30 fiscal years.

(B) A detailed program for the construction of auxiliary vessels for the Navy over the next 30 fiscal years.

(C) A description of the necessary naval vessel force structure and capabilities to meet the requirements of the national security strategy of the United States or the most recent quadrennial defense review, whichever is applicable under paragraph (1).

(D) The estimated levels of annual funding by ship class in both graphical and tabular form necessary to carry out the program, together with a discussion of the procurement strategies on which such estimated levels of annual funding are based.

(E) The estimated total cost of construction for each vessel used to determine estimated levels of annual funding under subparagraph (D).

  

(c) Assessment When Annual Naval Vessel Construction Plan Does Not Meet Force Structure Requirements.—If the annual naval vessel construction plan for a fiscal year under subsection (b) does not result in a force structure or capabilities that meet the requirements identified in subsection (b)(2)(B), the Secretary shall include with the defense budget materials for that fiscal year an assessment of the extent of the strategic and operational risk to national security associated with the reduced force structure of naval vessels over the period of time that the required force structure or capabilities are not achieved. Such assessment shall include an analysis of whether the risks are acceptable, and plans to mitigate such risks. Such assessment shall be coordinated in advance with the commanders of the combatant commands and the Nuclear Weapons Council under section 179 of this title.

(d) CBO Evaluation.—Not later than 60 days after the date on which the congressional defense committees receive the plan under subsection (a)(1), the Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall submit to such committees a report assessing the sufficiency of the estimated levels of annual funding included in such plan with respect to the budget submitted during the year in which the plan is submitted and the future-years defense program submitted under section 221 of this title.

(e) Limitation on Availability of Funds for Fiscal Years Without Plan and Certification.—(1) If the Secretary of Defense does not include with the defense budget materials for a fiscal year the plan and certification under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Navy may not use more than 50 percent of the funds described in paragraph (2) during the fiscal year in which such materials are submitted until the date on which such plan and certification are submitted to the congressional defense committees.

(2) The funds described in this paragraph are funds made available to the Secretary of the Navy for operation and maintenance, Navy, for emergencies and extraordinary expenses.

(f) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "budget", with respect to a fiscal year, means the budget for that fiscal year that is submitted to Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31.

(2) The term "defense budget materials", with respect to a fiscal year, means the materials submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Defense in support of the budget for that fiscal year.

(3) The term "quadrennial defense review" means the review of the defense programs and policies of the United States that is carried out every four years under section 118 [1](#231_1_target) of this title.

(4) The term "combatant and support vessel" means any commissioned ship built or armed for naval combat or any naval ship designed to provide support to combatant ships and other naval operations. Such term does not include patrol coastal ships, non-commissioned combatant craft specifically designed for combat roles, or ships that are designated for potential mobilization.

(5) The term "auxiliary vessel" means any ship designed to operate in the open ocean in a variety of sea states to provide general support to either combatant forces or shore based establishments.

(Added Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title X, §1022(a)(1), Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2639; amended Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title X, §1023(a), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4349; Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, §1011(a), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1558; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, §1014(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1908; Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title X, §1021, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 844; Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title X, §§1021, 1071(c)(2), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3486, 3508; Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title X, §1021, Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 965; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1021(d), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1547.)

#### References in Text

Section 118 of this title, referred to in subsec. (f)(3), was repealed by Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title IX, §941(b)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2367. For provisions related to national defense strategy similar to those contained in former section 118, see section 113(g) of this title.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–91, §1021(d)(1)(A), substituted "year each of the following:" for "year—" in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 115–91, §1021(d)(1)(B), substituted "A plan for the construction of naval vessels developed in accordance with this section for each of the following classes of ships:" for "a plan for the construction of combatant and support vessels for the Navy developed in accordance with this section;" and added subpars. (A) and (B).

Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 115–91, §1021(d)(1)(C), substituted "A certification" for "a certification".

Subsec. (b)(2)(B) to (D). Pub. L. 115–91, §1021(d)(2)(A), (B), added subpar. (B) and redesignated former subpars. (B) to (D) as (C) to (E), respectively.

Subsec. (b)(2)(E). Pub. L. 115–91, §1021(d)(2)(C), substituted "subparagraph (D)" for "subparagraph (C)".

Pub. L. 115–91, §1021(d)(2)(A), redesignated subpar. (D) as (E).

Subsec. (f)(5). Pub. L. 115–91, §1021(d)(3), added par. (5).

**2015**—Subsec. (b)(2)(C). Pub. L. 114–92 inserted "by ship class in both graphical and tabular form" after "The estimated levels of annual funding".

**2014**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 113–291, §1071(c)(2), substituted "(50 U.S.C. 3043)" for "(50 U.S.C. 404a)".

Subsec. (f)(4). Pub. L. 113–291, §1021, added par. (4).

**2013**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 113–66, §1021(a)(1), substituted "shall be designed" for "should be designed" in two places and "supports" for "is capable of supporting" in two places.

Subsec. (b)(2)(B). Pub. L. 113–66, §1021(a)(2)(A), inserted "and capabilities" after "naval vessel force structure".

Subsec. (b)(2)(D). Pub. L. 113–66, §1021(a)(2)(B), added subpar. (D).

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 113–66, §1021(b), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Text read as follows: "If the budget for a fiscal year provides for funding of the construction of naval vessels at a level that is not sufficient to sustain the naval vessel force structure specified in the naval vessel construction plan for that fiscal year under subsection (a), the Secretary shall include with the defense budget materials for that fiscal year an assessment that describes and discusses the risks associated with the reduced force structure of naval vessels that will result from funding naval vessel construction at such level. Such assessment shall be coordinated in advance with the commanders of the combatant commands."

Subsecs. (e), (f). Pub. L. 112–239 added subsec. (e) and redesignated former subsec. (e) as (f).

**2011**—Pub. L. 112–81 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to submission of a long-range plan for construction of combatant and support naval vessels that supports the force structure recommendations of a quadrennial defense review.

Pub. L. 111–383 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to submission of an annual plan for construction of naval vessels and certification that the budget for the current fiscal year and the future-years defense program is sufficient for procurement of vessels provided for in the plan.

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective Dec. 31, 2021, of provisions of this section requiring submittal of annual report to Congress, see section 1061 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 111 of this title.

[1 So in original.](#231_1)

[1 See References in Text note below.](#231_1)