### §235. Procurement of contract services: specification of amounts requested in budget

(a) Submission With Annual Budget Justification Materials.—In the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the Department of Defense budget for any fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31), the Secretary of Defense shall include the information described in subsection (b) with respect to the procurement of contract services.

(b) Information Provided.—For each budget account, the materials submitted shall clearly and separately identify—

(1) the amount requested for the procurement of contract services for each Department of Defense component, installation, or activity; and

(2) the number of full-time contractor employees (or the equivalent of full-time in the case of part-time contractor employees) projected and justified for each Department of Defense component, installation, or activity based on the inventory of contracts for services required by subsection (c) of section 2330a of this title and the review required by subsection (e) of such section.

  

(c) Contract Services Defined.—In this section, the term "contract services"—

(1) means services from contractors; but

(2) excludes services relating to research and development and services relating to military construction.

(Added Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title VIII, §803(a)(1), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2401.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1809(h)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4162, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 207 of this title, as amended by section 1809(a) of Pub. L. 116–283, added after section 3136, as transferred and redesignated by section 1809(g) of Pub. L. 116–283, and renumbered as section 3137 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VIII, §806, Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 213, which was set out as a note under section 221 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 111–84, §803(a)(3).

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.