### §321. Secretary of Agriculture to administer annual college-aid appropriation

The Secretary of Agriculture is charged with the proper administration of this subchapter.

(Aug. 30, 1890, ch. 841, §4, 26 Stat. 419; 1939 Reorg. Plan No. 1, §§201, 204, eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2728, 53 Stat. 1424; 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, §§5, 8, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, 67 Stat. 631; Pub. L. 96–88, title III, §301(a)(2)(E), Oct. 17, 1979, 93 Stat. 677; Pub. L. 97–98, title XIV, §1419, Dec. 22, 1981, 95 Stat. 1306.)

#### Codification

Section constitutes part of section 4 of act Aug. 30, 1890. Remainder of section 4 is classified to section 326 of this title.

#### Short Title

Act Aug. 30, 1890, as amended, which is classified to this subchapter, is popularly known as the “Agricultural College Act of 1890” and also as the “Second Morrill Act”.

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions and duties of Secretary of Education under this subchapter transferred to Secretary of Agriculture by section 1419 of Pub. L. 97–98.

Functions of Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under this subchapter transferred to Secretary of Education by section 301(a)(2)(E) of Pub. L. 96–88, which is classified to section 3441(a)(2)(E) of Title 20, Education.

Functions of Federal Security Administrator transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and all agencies of Federal Security Agency transferred to Department of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 5 of 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Federal Security Agency and office of Administrator abolished by section 8 of 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1.

Prior to July 1, 1939, functions of Secretary of the Interior under this subchapter were carried out through Office of Education of Department of the Interior. Office of Education and its functions transferred to Federal Security Administrator by section 204 of 1939 Reorg. Plan No. 1, set out in the Appendix to Title 5.

#### West Virginia State College at Institute, West Virginia

Pub. L. 107–76, title VII, §753, Nov. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 740, provided that: “Hereafter, any provision of any Act of Congress relating to colleges and universities eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 \[7 U.S.C. 321 et seq.\], including Tuskegee University, shall apply to West Virginia State College at Institute, West Virginia: *Provided*, That the Secretary may waive the matching funds’ requirement under section 1449 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222d) for fiscal year 2002 for West Virginia State College if the Secretary determines the State of West Virginia will be unlikely to satisfy the matching requirement.”