### §4128.[1](#4127_1_target) Laboratory Quality Enhancement Program

(a) Program Required.—(1) The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall carry out a program under which the Secretary shall establish the panels described in subsection (b) and direct such panels—

(A) to review and make recommendations to the Secretary with respect to—

(i) existing policies and practices affecting the science and technology reinvention laboratories to improve the mission effectiveness of such laboratories;

(ii) new initiatives proposed by the science and technology reinvention laboratories; and

(iii) new interpretations of existing provisions of law that would enhance the ability of a director of a science and technology reinvention laboratory to manage the laboratory and discharge the mission of the laboratory;

  

(B) to support implementation of current and future initiatives affecting the science and technology reinvention laboratories; and

(C) to conduct assessments or data analysis on the effectiveness of the authorities granted to the science and technology reinvention laboratories and such other issues as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

  

(2) The program carried out pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be known as the "Laboratory Quality Enhancement Program".

(b) Panels.—The panels described in this subsection are the following:

(1) A panel on personnel, workforce development, and talent management.

(2) A panel on facilities, equipment, and infrastructure.

(3) A panel on research strategy, technology transfer, and industry and university partnerships.

(4) A panel on governance and oversight processes.

  

(c) Composition of Panels.—(1) Each panel described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (b) may be composed of subject matter and technical management experts from—

(A) laboratories and research centers of the Army, Navy, and Air Force;

(B) appropriate Defense Agencies;

(C) the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering; and

(D) such other entities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

  

(2) The panel described in subsection (b)(4) shall be composed of—

(A) at least one member from each of the science and technology reinvention laboratories; and

(B) such other members as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

  

(d) Governance of Panels.—(1) The chairperson of each panel established pursuant to subsection (a) shall be selected by the members of the respective panel.

(2) Each panel, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall transmit to the Science and Technology Executive Committee of the Department of Defense such information or findings on topics requiring decision or approval as the panel considers appropriate.

(e) Interpretation of Provisions of Law.—(1) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, acting under the guidance of the Secretary, shall issue regulations regarding the meaning, scope, implementation, and applicability of any provision of a statute relating to a science and technology reinvention laboratory.

(2) In interpreting or defining under paragraph (1), the Under Secretary shall, to the degree practicable, emphasize providing the maximum operational flexibility to the directors of the science and technology reinvention laboratories to discharge the missions of their laboratories.

(3) In interpreting or defining under paragraph (1), the Under Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, consult and coordinate with the secretaries of the military departments and such other agencies or entities as the Under Secretary considers relevant on any proposed revision to regulations under paragraph (1).

(4) In interpreting or defining under paragraph (1), the Under Secretary shall seek recommendations from the panel described in subsection (b)(4).

(f) Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratory Defined.—In this section, the term "science and technology reinvention laboratory" means a Department of Defense laboratory designated as a Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratory under section 4121 of this title.

(Added Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title II, §217(a), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 1825.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title II, §211, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2046, as amended by Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title II, §218(a), (b)(1), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1329, 1330; Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title II, §215(d)(6), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 1594, which was set out in a note preceding section 4121 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title II, §217(b), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 1827.

[1 Another section 4128 is set out after this section.](#4128_1)ment cycle to support risk management and risk mitigation; and

(C) support development of guides to inform use and decision-making by program evaluators, program offices, and industry to meet software and hardware assurance requirements.

  

(e) Revised Charter.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense shall issue a revised charter for the Center. The charter shall set forth—

(1) the role and authorities of the Center and the Executive Steering Group;

(2) the requirement of the Center to establish guidelines for the development of improved software code vulnerability analysis and testing tools;

(3) the requirement of the Center to establish guidelines for the development of improved hardware vulnerability testing and protection tools; and

(4) the manner in which the Center will connect to the Department's major governance and resourcing processes to ensure the continuation of Center duties.

(Added Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title IX, §922(a), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2037.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (e), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 118–159, which was approved Dec. 23, 2024.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions requiring the establishment of a joint federation of capabilities to support the trusted defense system needs of the Department were contained in Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title IX, §937, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 834, as amended by Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title II, §231, Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 778, which was set out in a note under section 2224 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title IX, §922(c), Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2039.

[1 Another section 4128 is set out preceding this section.](#4128_1)