### §9401. Definitions

In this chapter:

#### (1) Advisory Committee

The term "Advisory Committee" means the National Artificial Intelligence Advisory Committee established under section 9414(a) of this title.

#### (2) Agency head

The term "agency head" means the head of any Executive agency (as defined in section 105 of title 5).

#### (3) Artificial intelligence

The term "artificial intelligence" means a machine-based system that can, for a given set of human-defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations or decisions influencing real or virtual environments. Artificial intelligence systems use machine and human-based inputs to—

(A) perceive real and virtual environments;

(B) abstract such perceptions into models through analysis in an automated manner; and

(C) use model inference to formulate options for information or action.

#### (4) Community college

The term "community college" means a public institution of higher education at which the highest degree that is predominantly awarded to students is an associate's degree, including 2-year Tribal Colleges or Universities under section 1059c of title 20 and public 2-year State institutions of higher education.

#### (5) Initiative

The term "Initiative" means the National Artificial Intelligence Initiative established under section 9411(a) of this title.

#### (6) Initiative Office

The term "Initiative Office" means the National Artificial Intelligence Initiative Office established under section 9412(a) of this title.

#### (7) Institute

The term "Institute" means an Artificial Intelligence Research Institute described in section 9431(b)(2) of this title.

#### (8) Institution of higher education

The term "institution of higher education" has the meaning given the term in section 1001 and section 1002(c) of title 20.

#### (9) Interagency Committee

The term "Interagency Committee" means the interagency committee established under section 9413(a) of this title.

#### (10) K-12 education

The term "K-12 education" means elementary school and secondary school education provided by local educational agencies, as such agencies are defined in section 7801 of title 20.

#### (11) Machine learning

The term "machine learning" means an application of artificial intelligence that is characterized by providing systems the ability to automatically learn and improve on the basis of data or experience, without being explicitly programmed.

(Pub. L. 116–283, div. E, §5002, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4523.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this division", meaning div. E of Pub. L. 116–283, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4523, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of div. E to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 116–283, div. E, §5001, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4523, provided that: "This division \[enacting this chapter and section 278h–1 of this title and amending sections 1862i and 1862n–1 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare\] may be cited as the 'National Artificial Intelligence Initiative Act of 2020'."