### §9411. Establishment: purpose

The Secretary of the Air Force may maintain schools and camps for the military instruction and training of persons selected, upon their application, from warrant officers and enlisted members of the Air Force and civilians, to qualify them for appointment as reserve officers, or enlistment as reserve noncommissioned officers, for service in the Air Force Reserve.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 571.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                 | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 9411              | 10:442 (words before 1st semicolon of 1st sentence). | June 3, 1916, ch. 134, §47d (words before 1st semicolon of 1st sentence); added June 4, 1920, ch. 227, subch. I, §34 (words before 1st semicolon of 1st sentence of last par.), 41 Stat. 779. |

The words "upon military reservations or elsewhere" are omitted as surplusage. The words "of the Air Force" are inserted for clarity. The words "or enlistment as" are inserted for clarity.

#### Inter-European Air Forces Academy

Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XII, §1268, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3585, provided that:

"(a) Operation.—The Secretary of the Air Force may operate the Air Force education and training facility known as the Inter-European Air Forces Academy (in this section referred to as the 'Academy').

"(b) Purpose.—The purpose of the Academy shall be to provide military education and training to military personnel of countries that are members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or signatories to the Partnership for Peace Framework Documents.

"(c) Limitations.—

"(1) Concurrence of secretary of state.—Military personnel of a country may be provided education and training under this section only with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.

"(2) Assistance otherwise prohibited by law.—Education and training may not be provided under this section to the military personnel of any country that is otherwise prohibited from receiving such type of assistance under any other provision of law.

"(d) Supplies and Clothing.—The Secretary of the Air Force may, under such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, provide to a person receiving education and training under this section the following:

"(1) Transportation incident to such education and training.

"(2) Supplies and equipment to be used during such education and training.

"(3) Billeting, food, and health services in connection with the receipt of such education and training.

"(e) Living Allowance.—The Secretary of the Air Force may pay to a person receiving education and training under this section a living allowance at a rate to be prescribed by the Secretary, taking into account the rates of living allowances authorized for a member of the Armed Forces under similar circumstances.

"(f) Funding.—Amounts for the operations and maintenance of the Academy, and for the provision of education and training through the Academy, may be paid from funds available for the Air Force for operation and maintenance.

"(g) Annual Reports.—

"(1) In general.—Not later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal year in which the Secretary of the Air Force operates the Academy pursuant to this section, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees \[Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives\], the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the operations of the Academy during such fiscal year.

"(2) Elements.—Each report under this subsection shall set forth, for the fiscal year covered by such report, the following:

"(A) A description of the operations of the Academy, including a description of the education and training courses provided under this section.

"(B) A summary of the number of individuals receiving education and training through the Academy, set forth by country of origin and education or training provided.

"(C) The amount paid by the Secretary for the operations and maintenance of the Academy.

"(D) The amounts paid by the Secretary under subsections (d) and (e) in connection with the provision of education and training through the Academy.

"(E) Any other matters the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

"(h) Expiration.—The authority in subsection (a) shall expire on September 30, 2019."