### §528. Protecting against unmanned aircraft

For the purposes of section 210G(k)(3)(C)(iv) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, the missions authorized to be performed by the United States Coast Guard shall be those related to—

(1) functions of the U.S. Coast Guard relating to security or protection of facilities and assets assessed to be high-risk and a potential target for unlawful unmanned aircraft activity, including the security and protection of—

(A) a facility, including a facility that is under the administrative control of the Commandant; and

(B) a vessel (whether moored or underway) or an aircraft, including a vessel or aircraft—

(i) that is operated by the Coast Guard, or that the Coast Guard is assisting or escorting; and

(ii) that is directly involved in a mission of the Coast Guard pertaining to—

(I) assisting or escorting a vessel of the Department of Defense;

(II) assisting or escorting a vessel of national security significance, a high interest vessel, a high capacity passenger vessel, or a high value unit, as those terms are defined by the Secretary;

(III) section 527(a) of this title;

(IV) assistance in protecting the President or the Vice President (or other officer next in order of succession to the Office of the President) pursuant to the Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 (18 U.S.C. 3056 note);

(V) protection of a National Special Security Event and Special Event Assessment Rating events;

(VI) air defense of the United States, including air sovereignty, ground-based air defense, and the National Capital Region integrated air defense system; or

(VII) a search and rescue operation; and

  

(2) missions directed by the Secretary pursuant to 210G(k)(3)(C)(iii) [1](#528_1_target) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002.

(Added Pub. L. 115–254, div. H, §1603(a), Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3529, §104; renumbered §528 and amended Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §§105(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4200, 4240.)

#### References in Text

Section 210G(k)(3)(C)(iii), (iv) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, referred to in text, is classified to section 124n(k)(3)(C)(iii), (iv) of Title 6, Domestic Security.

The Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976, referred to in par. (1)(B)(ii)(IV), is Pub. L. 94–524, Oct. 17, 1976, 90 Stat. 2475, which enacted and amended provisions set out as notes under section 3056 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 531 and 532 were redesignated sections 2901 and 2902 of this title, respectively.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, §105(b), renumbered section 104 of this title as this section.

Par. (1)(B)(ii)(III). Pub. L. 115–282, §123(b)(2), substituted "section 527(a)" for "section 91(a)".

[1 So in original. Probably should be preceded by "section".](#528_1)