### §1736y. Contract sanctity and producer embargo protection

It is hereby declared to be the policy of the United States—

(1) to foster and encourage the export of agricultural commodities and the products of such commodities;

(2) not to restrict or limit the export of such commodities and products except under the most compelling circumstances;

(3) that any prohibition or limitation on the export of such commodities or products should be imposed only in time of a national emergency declared by the President under the Export Administration Act; and

(4) that contracts for the export of such commodities or products entered into before the imposition of any prohibition or limitation on the export of such commodities or products should not be abrogated.

(Pub. L. 99–198, title XI, §1133(a), Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1489.)

#### References in Text

The Export Administration Act, referred to in par. (3), probably means the Export Administration Act of 1979, Pub. L. 96–72, Sept. 29, 1979, 93 Stat. 503, which was classified principally to chapter 56 (§4601 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, §1766(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2232, except for sections 11A, 11B, and 11C thereof (50 U.S.C. 4611, 4612, 4613).

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 1133(a) of Pub. L. 99–198. Section 1133(b) of Pub. L. 99–198 amended section 1736j of this title.

Section was enacted as part of the Food Security Act of 1985, and not as part of the Food for Peace Act which comprises this chapter.