### §470. Counterfeit acts committed outside the United States

A person who, outside the United States, engages in the act of—

(1) making, dealing, or possessing any counterfeit obligation or other security of the United States; or

(2) making, dealing, or possessing any plate, stone, analog, digital, or electronic image, or other thing, or any part thereof, used to counterfeit such obligation or security,

  

if such act would constitute a violation of section 471, 473, or 474 if committed within the United States, shall be punished as is provided for the like offense within the United States.

(Added Pub. L. 103–322, title XII, §120003(a), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 2021; amended Pub. L. 107–56, title III, §374(a), Oct. 26, 2001, 115 Stat. 340.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2001**—Pub. L. 107–56, §374(a)(2), in concluding provisions, substituted "shall be punished as is provided for the like offense within the United States" for "shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both".

Par. (2). Pub. L. 107–56, §374(a)(1), inserted "analog, digital, or electronic image," after "plate, stone,".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 1992 Amendment

Pub. L. 102–550, title XV, §1551, Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 4070, provided that: "This subtitle \[subtitle E (§§1551–1554) of title XV of Pub. L. 102–550, enacting section 474A of this title and amending sections 474 and 504 of this title\] may be cited as the 'Counterfeit Deterrence Act of 1992'."

#### Combatting International Counterfeiting of United States Currency

Pub. L. 104–132, title VIII, §807, Apr. 24, 1996, 110 Stat. 1308, which directed the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the advanced counterfeit deterrence steering committee, to study the use and counterfeiting of United States currency abroad, develop an evaluation audit plan, and submit written reports to Congress, ceased to be effective on Apr. 24, 2006.