### §211. Establishment; Commissioner of Customs

#### (a) Establishment

There is established in the Department the United States Customs Service, under the authority of the Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security, which shall be vested with those functions including, but not limited to those set forth in section 215(7) of this title, and the personnel, assets, and liabilities attributable to those functions.

#### (b) Commissioner of Customs

#### (1) In general

There shall be at the head of the Customs Service a Commissioner of Customs, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

#### (2) Omitted

#### (3) Continuation in office

The individual serving as the Commissioner of Customs on the day before the effective date of this chapter may serve as the Commissioner of Customs on and after such effective date until a Commissioner of Customs is appointed under paragraph (1).

(Pub. L. 107–296, title IV, §411, Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2178.)

#### References in Text

The effective date of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is 60 days after Nov. 25, 2002, see section 4 of Pub. L. 107–296, set out as an Effective Date note under section 101 of this title.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 411 of Pub. L. 107–296. Subsec. (b)(2) of section 411 of Pub. L. 107–296 amended section 5314 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Change of Name

Customs Service, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), changed to Bureau of Customs and Border Protection by Reorganization Plan Modification for the Department of Homeland Security, eff. Mar. 1, 2003, H. Doc. No. 108–32, 108th Congress, 1st Session, set out as a note under section 542 of this title.