### §4406. Reconversion of vessels for normal commercial operation; applicability of other laws to construction contracts; coastwise trade; disposition of moneys; Great Lakes trade

(a) The Secretary is authorized to reconvert or restore for normal operation in commercial services and to convert for operation on the Great Lakes, including the Saint Lawrence River and Gulf, and their connecting waterways, including removal of national defense or war-service features, any vessel authorized to be sold or chartered under this Act. The Secretary is authorized to make such replacements, alterations, or modifications with respect to any vessel authorized to be sold or chartered under this Act, and to install therein such special features, as may be necessary or advisable to make such vessel suitable for commercial operation on trade routes or services or comparable as to commercial utility to other such vessels of the same general type.

(b) to (e) Repealed. Pub. L. 101–225, title III, §307(12), Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat. 1925.

(Mar. 8, 1946, ch. 82, §12, 60 Stat. 49; Sept. 28, 1950, ch. 1093, §§1, 2, 64 Stat. 1078; Pub. L. 97–31, §12(158), Aug. 6, 1981, 95 Stat. 168; Pub. L. 101–225, title III, §307(12), Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat. 1925.)

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is act Mar. 8, 1946, ch. 82, 60 Stat. 41, known as the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4401 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1745 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**1989**—Subsecs. (b) to (e). Pub. L. 101–225, which directed repeal of subsecs. (b) to (f), was executed by striking out subsecs. (b) to (e) as the probable intent of Congress because there was no subsec. (f). Subsecs. (b) to (e) provided in subsec. (b) that section 202 of the War Mobilization and Reconversion Act was inapplicable to contracts of the Commission for or relating to construction of ships, in subsec. (c) that no vessel sold or chartered to a citizen of the United States be prohibited from engaging in the coastwise trade of the United States merely because it was under foreign registry on or after May 27, 1941, in subsec. (d) that all moneys received be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts, and in subsec. (e) that the Secretary make allowances to purchasers of not more than ten vessels sold for exclusive use on the Great Lakes.

**1981**—Subsecs. (a), (c), (d). Pub. L. 97–31, §12(158)(A), substituted "Secretary" for "Commission" wherever appearing.

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 97–31, §12(158)(B), substituted "Secretary of Transportation" for "Secretary of Commerce".

**1950**—Subsec. (a). Act Sept. 28, 1950, §1, provided for conversion for operation on the Great Lakes, including the Saint Lawrence River and Gulf, and their connecting waterways.

Subsec. (e). Act Sept. 28, 1950, §2, added subsec. (e).