### §5174b. Critical document fee waiver

(1) In general.—Notwithstanding section 214 of title 22 or any other provision of law, the President, in consultation with the Governor of a State, may provide a waiver under this subsection to an individual or household described in section 5174(e)(1) of this title for the following document replacement fees:

(A) The passport application fee for individuals who lost their United States passport in a major disaster within the preceding three calendar years.

(B) The file search fee for a United States passport.

(C) The Application for Waiver of Passport and/or Visa form (Form I–193) fee.

(D) The Permanent Resident Card replacement form (Form I–90) filing fee.

(E) The Declaration of Intention form (Form N–300) filing fee.

(F) The Naturalization/Citizenship Document replacement form (Form N–565) filing fee.

(G) The Employment Authorization form (Form I–765) filing fee.

(H) The biometric service fee.

(2) Exemption from form requirement.—The authority of the President to waive fees under subparagraphs (C) through (H) of paragraph (1) applies regardless of whether the individual or household qualifies for a Form I–912 Request for Fee Waiver, or any successor thereto.

(3) Exemption from assistance maximum.—The assistance limit in section 5174(h) of this title shall not apply to any fee waived under this subsection.

(4) Report.—Not later than 365 days after October 5, 2018, the Administrator and the head of any other agency given critical document fee waiver authority under this subsection shall submit a report to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives on the costs associated with providing critical document fee waivers as described in paragraph (1).

(Pub. L. 115–254, div. D, §1238(a), Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3465.)

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 and as part of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, and not as part of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act which comprises this chapter.

Section is comprised of subsec. (a) of section 1238 of Pub. L. 115–254. Subsecs. (b) and (c) of section 1238 of Pub. L. 115–254 amended section 5122 of this title and enacted provisions set out as a note under that section.

#### Definitions

For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 1203 of Pub. L. 115–254, set out as a note under section 5122 of this title.