### §9056. Foreclosure moratorium and consumer right to request forbearance

#### (a) Definitions

In this section:

#### (1) COVID–19 emergency

The term "COVID–19 emergency" means the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (COVID–19) outbreak declared by the President on March 13, 2020 under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).

#### (2) Federally backed mortgage loan

The term "Federally backed mortgage loan" includes any loan which is secured by a first or subordinate lien on residential real property (including individual units of condominiums and cooperatives) designed principally for the occupancy of from 1- to 4- families that is—

(A) insured by the Federal Housing Administration under title II of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1707 et seq.);

(B) insured under section 255 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z–20);

(C) guaranteed under section 1715z–13a or 1715z–13b of title 12;

(D) guaranteed or insured by the Department of Veterans Affairs;

(E) guaranteed or insured by the Department of Agriculture;

(F) made by the Department of Agriculture; or

(G) purchased or securitized by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Federal National Mortgage Association.

#### (b) Forbearance

#### (1) In general

During the covered period, a borrower with a Federally backed mortgage loan experiencing a financial hardship due, directly or indirectly, to the COVID–19 emergency may request forbearance on the Federally backed mortgage loan, regardless of delinquency status, by—

(A) submitting a request to the borrower's servicer; and

(B) affirming that the borrower is experiencing a financial hardship during the COVID–19 emergency.

#### (2) Duration of forbearance

Upon a request by a borrower for forbearance under paragraph (1), such forbearance shall be granted for up to 180 days, and shall be extended for an additional period of up to 180 days at the request of the borrower, provided that, at the borrower's request, either the initial or extended period of forbearance may be shortened.

#### (3) Accrual of interest or fees

During a period of forbearance described in this subsection, no fees, penalties, or interest beyond the amounts scheduled or calculated as if the borrower made all contractual payments on time and in full under the terms of the mortgage contract, shall accrue on the borrower's account.

#### (c) Requirements for servicers

#### (1) In general

Upon receiving a request for forbearance from a borrower under subsection (b), the servicer shall with no additional documentation required other than the borrower's attestation to a financial hardship caused by the COVID–19 emergency and with no fees, penalties, or interest (beyond the amounts scheduled or calculated as if the borrower made all contractual payments on time and in full under the terms of the mortgage contract) charged to the borrower in connection with the forbearance, provide the forbearance for up to 180 days, which may be extended for an additional period of up to 180 days at the request of the borrower, provided that, the borrower's request for an extension is made during the covered period, and, at the borrower's request, either the initial or extended period of forbearance may be shortened.

#### (2) Foreclosure moratorium

Except with respect to a vacant or abandoned property, a servicer of a Federally backed mortgage loan may not initiate any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process, move for a foreclosure judgment or order of sale, or execute a foreclosure-related eviction or foreclosure sale for not less than the 60-day period beginning on March 18, 2020.

(Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title IV, §4022, Mar. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 490.)

#### References in Text

The National Emergencies Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is Pub. L. 94–412, Sept. 14, 1976, 90 Stat. 1255, which is classified principally to chapter 34 (§1601 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1601 of Title 50 and Tables.

The National Housing Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(A), is act June 27, 1934, ch. 847, 48 Stat. 1246. Title II of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§1707 et seq.) of chapter 13 of Title 12, Banks and Banking. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1701 of Title 12 and Tables.