### §4352. Selected acquisition reports: requirement for quarterly reports

(a) In General.—

(1) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress at the end of each fiscal-year quarter a report on—

(A) current major defense acquisition programs; and

(B) any program that is estimated by the Secretary of Defense to require—

(i) an eventual total expenditure for research, development, test, and evaluation of more than $300,000,000 (based on fiscal year 1990 constant dollars); or

(ii) an eventual total expenditure for procurement, including all planned increments or spirals, of more than $1,800,000,000 (based on fiscal year 1990 constant dollars).

  

(2) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), each such report shall include a status report on each defense acquisition program that at the end of such quarter is a major defense acquisition program.

(3) Reports under this chapter shall be known as Selected Acquisition Reports.

  

(b) Reports Not Required for 2d, 3d, and 4th Quarters for Certain Programs.—A status report on a major defense acquisition program need not be included in the Selected Acquisition Report for the second, third, or fourth quarter of a fiscal year if such a report was included in a previous Selected Acquisition Report for that fiscal year and during the period since that report there has been—

(1) less than a 15 percent increase in program acquisition unit cost and current procurement unit cost for the program (or for each designated subprogram under the program); and

(2) less than a six-month delay in any program schedule milestone shown in the Selected Acquisition Report.

  

(c) Secretary of Defense Waiver Authority.—

(1) Authority.—The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement for submission of Selected Acquisition Reports for a program for a fiscal year if—

(A) the program has not entered system development and demonstration;

(B) a reasonable cost estimate has not been established for such program; and

(C) the system configuration for such program is not well defined.

  

(2) Notification to congressional committees.—The Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a written notification of each waiver under paragraph (1) for a program for a fiscal year not later than 60 days before the President submits the budget to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31 in that fiscal year.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1849(a), (d), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4259, 4260.)

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.