### §4351. Selected acquisition reports: definitions

In this section:

(1) Program acquisition unit cost.—The term "program acquisition unit cost", with respect to a major defense acquisition program, means the amount equal to (A) the total cost for development and procurement of, and system-specific military construction for, the acquisition program, divided by (B) the number of fully-configured end items to be produced for the acquisition program.

(2) Procurement unit cost.—The term "procurement unit cost", with respect to a major defense acquisition program, means the amount equal to (A) the total of all funds programmed to be available for obligation for procurement for the program, divided by (B) the number of fully-configured end items to be procured.

(3) Major contract.—The term "major contract", with respect to a major defense acquisition program, means each of the six largest prime, associate, or Government-furnished equipment contracts under the program that is in excess of $40,000,000 and that is not a firm, fixed price contract.

(4) Full life-cycle cost.—The term "full life-cycle cost", with respect to a major defense acquisition program, means all costs of development, procurement, military construction, and operations and support, without regard to funding source or management control.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1849(a), (c), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4259, 4260.)

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.