### §101113. Gifts, devises, or bequests

(a) Authority To Accept Gifts, Devises, or Bequests.—

(1) In general.—The National Park Foundation may accept, receive, solicit, hold, administer, and use any gifts, devises, or bequests, either absolutely or in trust of real or personal property, or any income from, or other interest in, the gift, devise, or bequest, for the benefit of, or in connection with, the Service, its activities, or its services.

(2) Gift, devise, or bequest that is encumbered, restricted, or subject to beneficial interests.—A gift, devise, or bequest may be accepted by the National Park Foundation even though it is encumbered, restricted, or subject to beneficial interests of private persons if any current or future interest in the gift, devise, or bequest is for the benefit of the Service, its activities, or its services.

  

(b) When Gift, Devise, or Bequest May Not Be Accepted.—The National Park Foundation may not accept any gift, devise, or bequest that entails any expenditure other than from the resources of the Foundation.

(c) Interest in Real Property.—For purposes of this section, an interest in real property includes easements or other rights for preservation, conservation, protection, or enhancement by and for the public of natural, scenic, historic, scientific, educational, inspirational, or recreational resources.

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3120.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                               | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                     |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| 101113(a)(1)       | 16 U.S.C. 19g (1st sentence words before proviso). | Pub. L. 90–209, §3, Dec. 18, 1967, 81 Stat. 656. |
| 101113(a)(2)       | 16 U.S.C. 19g (last sentence).                     |                                                  |
| 101113(b)          | 16 U.S.C. 19g (1st sentence proviso).              |                                                  |
| 101113(c)          | 16 U.S.C. 19g (2d sentence).                       |                                                  |

In subsection (c), the words "among other things" are omitted as unnecessary.