### §11162. Training and technical assistance

#### (a) Training

The Administrator may—

(1) develop and carry out projects for the purpose of training representatives and personnel of public and private agencies, including practitioners in juvenile justice, law enforcement, courts (including model juvenile and family courts), corrections, schools, and related services, to carry out the purposes specified in section 11102 of this title; and

(2) make grants to and contracts with public and private agencies, institutions, and organizations for the purpose of training representatives and personnel of public and private agencies, including practitioners in juvenile justice, law enforcement, courts (including model juvenile and family courts), corrections, schools, and related services, to carry out the purposes specified in section 11102 of this title.

#### (b) Technical assistance

The Administrator may—

(1) develop and implement projects for the purpose of providing technical assistance to representatives and personnel of public and private agencies and organizations, including practitioners in juvenile justice, law enforcement, courts (including model juvenile and family courts), corrections, schools, and related services, in the establishment, implementation, and operation of programs, projects, and activities for which financial assistance is provided under this subchapter; and

(2) make grants to and contracts with public and private agencies, institutions, and organizations, for the purpose of providing technical assistance to representatives and personnel of public and private agencies, including practitioners in juvenile justice, law enforcement, courts (including model juvenile and family courts), corrections, schools, and related services, in the establishment, implementation, and operation of programs, projects, and activities for which financial assistance is provided under this subchapter.

#### (c) Training and technical assistance to mental health professionals and law enforcement personnel

The Administrator shall provide training and technical assistance to mental health professionals and law enforcement personnel (including public defenders, police officers, probation officers, judges, parole officials, and correctional officers) to address or to promote the development, testing, or demonstration of promising or innovative models (including model juvenile and family courts), programs, or delivery systems that address the needs of juveniles who are alleged or adjudicated delinquent and who, as a result of such status, are placed in secure detention or confinement or in nonsecure residential placements.

(Pub. L. 93–415, title II, §252, as added Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, §12211, Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1890.)

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 5662 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.