### §1677*l*. Antidumping and countervailing duty collections

The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall before the 60th day of each fiscal year after fiscal year 1994 submit to Congress a report regarding the collection during the preceding fiscal year of duties imposed under the antidumping and countervailing duty laws.

(Pub. L. 103–182, title VI, §691(a), Dec. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 2223; Pub. L. 114–125, title VIII, §802(d)(2), Feb. 24, 2016, 130 Stat. 210.)

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act, and not as part of the Tariff Act of 1930 which comprises this chapter.

#### Change of Name

"Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection" substituted for "Commissioner of Customs" in text on authority of section 802(d)(2) of Pub. L. 114–125, set out as a note under section 211 of Title 6, Domestic Security.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6. For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in Pub. L. 107–296 as of Nov. 25, 2002, see section 211 of Title 6, as amended generally by Pub. L. 114–125, and section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125, set out as a note under section 211 of Title 6.