### §15106. National Offshore Safety Advisory Committee

(a) Establishment.—There is established a National Offshore Safety Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the "Committee").

(b) Function.—The Committee shall advise the Secretary on matters relating to activities directly involved with, or in support of, the exploration of offshore mineral and energy resources, to the extent that such matters are within the jurisdiction of the Coast Guard.

(c) Membership.—

(1) In general.—The Committee shall consist of 15 members appointed by the Secretary in accordance with this section and section 15109 of this chapter.

(2) Expertise.—Each member of the Committee shall have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in matters relating to the function of the Committee.

(3) Representation.—Members of the Committee shall be appointed as follows:

(A) 2 members shall represent entities engaged in the production of petroleum.

(B) 2 members shall represent entities engaged in offshore drilling.

(C) 2 members shall represent entities engaged in the support, by offshore supply vessels or other vessels, of offshore mineral and oil operations, including geophysical services.

(D) 1 member shall represent entities engaged in the construction of offshore exploration and recovery facilities.

(E) 1 member shall represent entities engaged in diving services related to offshore construction, inspection, and maintenance.

(F) 1 member shall represent entities engaged in safety and training services related to offshore exploration and construction.

(G) 1 member shall represent entities engaged in pipelaying services related to offshore construction.

(H) 2 members shall represent individuals employed in offshore operations and, of the 2, 1 shall have recent practical experience on a vessel or offshore unit involved in the offshore mineral and energy industry.

(I) 1 member shall represent national environmental entities.

(J) 1 member shall represent deepwater ports.

(K) 1 member shall represent the general public (but not a specific environmental group).

(Added Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, §601(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4284.)