### §9375. Production of supplies and munitions: hours and pay of laborers and mechanics

During a national emergency declared by the President, the regular working hours of laborers and mechanics of the Department of the Air Force producing military supplies or munitions are 8 hours a day or 40 hours a week. However, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force these hours may be exceeded. Each laborer or mechanic who works more than 40 hours in a workweek shall be paid at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular hourly rate for each hour in excess of 40.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 558, §9025; renumbered §9375, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(b)(16), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1833.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                 |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| 9025              | 5:189a.              | July 2, 1940, ch. 508, §4 (b), 54 Stat. 714. |

The words "Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law" are omitted as surplusage. The word "producing" is substituted for the words "who are engaged in the manufacture or production". The last sentence is substituted for 5:189a (last 34 words).

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 9025 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.