### §4041. Implementation of program

Following such consultation with representatives of the insurance industry as may be necessary, the Administrator shall implement the flood insurance program authorized under subchapter I in accordance with the provisions of part A of this subchapter and, if a determination is made by him under section 4071 of this title, under part B of this subchapter.

(Pub. L. 90–448, title XIII, §1330, Aug. 1, 1968, 82 Stat. 581; Pub. L. 98–181, title I \[title IV, §451(d)(1)\], Nov. 30, 1983, 97 Stat. 1229; Pub. L. 112–141, div. F, title II, §100238(b)(1), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 958.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2012**—Pub. L. 112–141 substituted "Administrator" for "Director".

**1983**—Pub. L. 98–181 substituted "Director" for "Secretary".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 120 days following Aug. 1, 1968, or such later date prescribed by the Secretary but in no event more than 180 days following Aug. 1, 1968, see section 1377 of Pub. L. 90–448, set out as a note under section 4001 of this title.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see section 315(a)(1) of Title 6, Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.