### §5364. Prohibition against management interlocks between certain financial companies

A nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors shall be treated as a bank holding company for purposes of the Depository Institutions [1](#5364_1_target) Management Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.), except that the Board of Governors shall not exercise the authority provided in section 7 [2](#5364_2_target) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 3207) to permit service by a management official of a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors as a management official of any bank holding company with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50,000,000,000, or other nonaffiliated nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors (other than to provide a temporary exemption for interlocks resulting from a merger, acquisition, or consolidation).

([Pub. L. 111–203, title I, §164, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1423](/statviewer.htm?volume=124&page=1423).)

#### References in Text

The Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act, referred to in text, is title II of [Pub. L. 95–630, Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3672](/statviewer.htm?volume=92&page=3672), which is classified principally to chapter 33 (§3201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3201 of this title and Tables.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "Institution".](#5364_1)

[2 So in original. There is no section 7 of such Act.](#5364_2)