### §2442. Prohibition on use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection process

(a) In General.—The Department of Defense shall not use a lowest price technically acceptable source selection process for the engineering and manufacturing development contract of a major defense acquisition program.

(b) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) Lowest price technically acceptable source selection process.—The term "lowest price technically acceptable source selection process" has the meaning given that term in part 15 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

(2) Major defense acquisition program.—The term "major defense acquisition program" has the meaning given that term in section 2430 of this title.

(3) Engineering and manufacturing development contract.—The term "engineering and manufacturing development contract" means a prime contract for the engineering and manufacturing development of a major defense acquisition program.

(Added Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, §832(a)(1), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1468.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1847(c)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4254, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 322 of this title, as added by section 1847(a) of Pub. L. 116–283, inserted after section 4231, and redesignated as section 4232 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, §832(b), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1468, provided that: "The requirements of section 2442 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply to major defense acquisition programs for which budgetary authority is requested for fiscal year 2019 or a subsequent fiscal year."