### §2250b. Nonrecurring expenses fund

There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the "Nonrecurring expenses fund" (the Fund): *Provided*, That unobligated balances of expired discretionary funds appropriated in this or any succeeding fiscal year from the General Fund of the Treasury to the Department of Agriculture (except the Forest Service) by this or any other Act may be transferred (not later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the purposes for which appropriated) into the Fund: *Provided further*, That amounts deposited in the Fund shall be available until expended, and in addition to such other funds as may be available for such purposes, for facilities infrastructure and information technology services.[1](#2250b_1_target) necessary for the operation of the Department of Agriculture, subject to approval by the Office of Management and Budget: *Provided further*, That amounts in the Fund may be obligated only after the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of the planned use of funds.

(Pub. L. 113–235, div. A, title VII, §742, Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2170; Pub. L. 118–42, div. B, title VII, §779, Mar. 9, 2024, 138 Stat. 117.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is div. A of Pub. L. 113–235, Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2135, known as the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Pub. L. 118–42, which directed the amendment of section 2250b of title 7, United States Code, was executed by making the amendment to section 742 of Pub. L. 113–235, which is classified to this section, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Amendments

**2024**—Pub. L. 118–42 substituted "infrastructure and information technology services. necessary" for "infrastructure capital acquisition necessary". See Codification note above.

[1 So in original.](#2250b_1)