### §2219a. Overtime and holiday pay

#### (a) In general

The Secretary of Agriculture may—

(1) pay employees of the Department of Agriculture employed in an establishment subject to the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) or the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 et seq.) for all overtime and holiday work performed at the establishment at rates determined by the Secretary, subject to applicable law relating to minimum wages and maximum hours; and

(2) accept from the establishment reimbursement for any sums paid by the Secretary for the overtime and holiday work, at rates determined under paragraph (1).

#### (b) Availability

Sums received by the Secretary under this section shall remain available until expended without further appropriation and without fiscal year limitation, to carry out subsection (a).

(Pub. L. 107–171, title X, §10703(a), (b), May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 517.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Meat Inspection Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is titles I to V of act Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907, as added Pub. L. 90–201, Dec. 15, 1967, 81 Stat. 584, and Pub. L. 110–246, title XI, §11015(a), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 2124, which are classified generally to subchapters I to IV–A (§601 et seq.) of chapter 12 of Title 21, Food and Drugs. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 601 of Title 21 and Tables.

The Poultry Products Inspection Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is Pub. L. 85–172, Aug. 28, 1957, 71 Stat. 441, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 10 (§451 et seq.) of Title 21, Food and Drugs. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 451 of Title 21 and Tables.