### §2792. Limitations on use of funds for laboratory directed research and development purposes

#### (a) General limitations

(1) No funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Energy in any fiscal year after fiscal year 1997 for weapons activities may be obligated or expended for activities under the Department of Energy Laboratory Directed Research and Development Program, or under any Department of Energy technology transfer program or cooperative research and development agreement, unless such activities support the national security mission of the Department of Energy.

(2) No funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Energy in any fiscal year after fiscal year 1997 for environmental restoration, waste management, or nuclear materials and facilities stabilization may be obligated or expended for activities under the Department of Energy Laboratory Directed Research and Development Program, or under any Department of Energy technology transfer program or cooperative research and development agreement, unless such activities support the environmental restoration mission, waste management mission, or materials stabilization mission, as the case may be, of the Department of Energy.

#### (b) “Laboratory directed research and development” defined

In this section, the term “laboratory directed research and development” has the meaning given that term in section 2791(d) of this title.

(Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, §4812, formerly Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXI, §3137, Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 2038; renumbered Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, §4812, and amended Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, §3141(k)(7)(A), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1784; Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, §3131(w), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2184.)

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 4812 of Pub. L. 107–314. Subsec. (c) of section 4812 of Pub. L. 107–314 amended section 2793 of this title and was subsequently struck out by Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, §3131(w)(1), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2184. See 2013 Amendment note below.

Section was formerly classified to section 7257c of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by Pub. L. 108–136.

#### Amendments

**2013**—Subsecs. (b) to (e). Pub. L. 112–239 redesignated subsec. (e) as (b) and struck out former subsecs. (b) to (d). Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) related to a funding limitation in fiscal year 1998 pending submittal of annual report, subsec. (c) was omitted, and subsec. (d) related to an assessment of funding level for laboratory directed research and development.

**2003**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 108–136, §3141(k)(7)(A)(iv), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to section 2793(b) of this title.

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 108–136, §3141(k)(7)(A)(v)(II), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to section 2791(c) of this title.

Pub. L. 108–136, §3141(k)(7)(A)(v)(I), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to section 2793(b)(1) of this title.

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–136, §3141(k)(7)(A)(vi), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to section 2791(d) of this title.