### §10601. Definitions

In this chapter:

(1) The term "appropriate congressional committees" means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and

(D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

  

(2) The term "Board" means the Board of Directors established pursuant to section 10603(b) of this title.

(3) The term "eligible country" means any country described in section 10606(b) of this title.

(4) The term "eligible project" means any project described in section 10606(a)(3) of this title.

(5) The term "Executive Director" means the Executive Director of the Foundation hired pursuant to section 10603 of this title.

(6) The term "Foundation" means the United States Foundation for International Conservation established pursuant to section 10602(a) of this title.

(7) The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of State.

(Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LI, §5101, Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2410.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in introductory provisions, was in the original "this title" and was translated as reading "this subtitle", meaning subtitle A (§§5101–5109) of title LI of div. E of Pub. L. 118–159, Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2410, known as the United States Foundation for International Conservation Act of 2024, which is classified generally to this chapter.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LI, subtitle A, Dec. 23, 2024, 138 Stat. 2410, which enacted this chapter, is popularly known as the United States Foundation for International Conservation Act of 2024.