### §280h–3. Health professional education and training

#### (a) In general

The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in collaboration with the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration and the heads of other agencies, and in consultation with appropriate health professional associations, shall develop and carry out a program to educate and train health professionals in effective strategies to—

(1) better identify and assess patients with obesity or an eating disorder or patients at-risk of becoming obese or developing an eating disorder;

(2) counsel, refer, or treat patients with obesity or an eating disorder; and

(3) educate patients and their families about effective strategies to improve dietary habits and establish appropriate levels of physical activity.

#### (b) Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, §399Z, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title XXIV, §2401, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1160.)

#### Education and Training on Eating Disorders

Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIII, §13006, Dec. 13, 2016, 130 Stat. 1287, provided that: "The Secretary of Health and Human Services may facilitate the identification of model programs and materials for educating and training health professionals in effective strategies to—

"(1) identify individuals with eating disorders;

"(2) provide early intervention services for individuals with eating disorders;

"(3) refer patients with eating disorders for appropriate treatment;

"(4) prevent the development of eating disorders; and

"(5) provide appropriate treatment services for individuals with eating disorders."