### §1521a. Destruction of existing stockpile of lethal chemical agents and munitions

#### (a) Program management

The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the program for destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical agents and munitions is managed as a major defense acquisition program (as defined in section 4201 of title 10) in accordance with the essential elements of such programs as may be determined by the Secretary.

#### (b) Requirement for Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) annual certification

Beginning with respect to the budget request for fiscal year 2004, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall submit to the congressional defense committees on an annual basis a certification that the budget request for the chemical agents and munitions destruction program has been submitted in accordance with the requirements of section 1521 of this title.

(Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title I, §141, Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2477; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1846(i)(6), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4252; Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, §1702(k)(1), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2160.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003, and not as part of Pub. L. 91–121, title IV, §409, Nov. 19, 1969, 83 Stat. 209, which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–283 and Pub. L. 117–81 amended subsec. (a) identically, substituting "section 4201" for "section 2430".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of Title 10, Armed Forces.

#### "Congressional Defense Committees" Defined

Congressional defense committees means the Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, see section 3 of Pub. L. 107–314, 116 Stat. 2471. See note under section 101 of Title 10, Armed Forces.