### §9233. Requirement of exemplary conduct

All commanding officers and others in authority in the Air Force and in the Space Force are required—

(1) to show in themselves a good example of virtue, honor, patriotism, and subordination;

(2) to be vigilant in inspecting the conduct of all persons who are placed under their command;

(3) to guard against and suppress all dissolute and immoral practices, and to correct, according to the laws and regulations of the Air Force or the Space Force, respectively, all persons who are guilty of them; and

(4) to take all necessary and proper measures, under the laws, regulations, and customs of the Air Force or the Space Force, respectively, to promote and safeguard the morale, the physical well-being, and the general welfare of the officers and enlisted persons under their command or charge.

(Added Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title V, §507(b)(1), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1727, §8583; renumbered §9233, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(b)(7), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1832; amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §923(c)(7), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3811.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §923(c)(7)(A), inserted "and in the Space Force" after "the Air Force" in introductory provisions.

Pars. (3), (4). Pub. L. 116–283, §923(c)(7)(B), inserted "or the Space Force, respectively" after "the Air Force".

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 8583 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.