### §205. Missile Defense Agency

(a) Appointment of Director.—The Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall be appointed for a six-year term.

(b) Notification of Changes to Non-standard Acquisition and Requirements Processes and Responsibilities.—(1) The Secretary of Defense may not make any changes to the missile defense non-standard acquisition and requirements processes and responsibilities unless, with respect to those proposed changes—

(A) the Secretary, without delegation, has taken each of the actions specified in paragraph (2); and

(B) a period of 120 days has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary submits the report under subparagraph (C) of such paragraph.

  

(2) If the Secretary proposes to make changes to the missile defense non-standard acquisition and requirements processes and responsibilities, the Secretary shall—

(A) consult with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Secretaries of the military departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, the Commander of the United States Northern Command, and the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, regarding the changes;

(B) certify to the congressional defense committees that the Secretary has coordinated the changes with, and received the views of, the individuals referred to in subparagraph (A);

(C) submit to the congressional defense committees a report that contains—

(i) a description of the changes, the rationale for the changes, and the views of the individuals referred to in subparagraph (A) with respect to the changes;

(ii) a certification that the changes will not impair the missile defense capabilities of the United States nor degrade the unique special acquisition authorities of the Missile Defense Agency; and

(iii) with respect to any such changes to Department of Defense Directive 5134.09, or successor directive issued in accordance with this subsection, a final draft of the proposed modified directive, both in an electronic format and in a hard copy format; and

  

(D) with respect to any such changes to Department of Defense Directive 5134.09, or successor directive issued in accordance with this subsection, provide to such committees a briefing on the proposed modified directive described in subparagraph (C)(iii).

  

(3) In this subsection, the term "non-standard acquisition and requirements processes and responsibilities" means the processes and responsibilities described in—

(A) the memorandum of the Secretary of Defense titled "Missile Defense Program Direction" signed on January 2, 2002, as in effect on the date of the enactment of this subsection or as modified in accordance with this subsection, or any successor memorandum issued in accordance with this subsection;

(B) Department of Defense Directive 5134.09, as in effect on the date of the enactment of this subsection (without regard to any modifications described in Directive-type Memorandum 20–002 of the Deputy Secretary of Defense, or any amendments or extensions thereto made before the date of such enactment), or as modified in accordance with this subsection, or any successor directive issued in accordance with this subsection; and

(C) United States Strategic Command Instruction 538–3 titled "MD Warfighter Involvement Process", as in effect on the date of the enactment of this subsection or as modified in accordance with this subsection, or any successor instruction issued in accordance with this subsection.

(Added Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XVI, §1676(c)(1), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1773; amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVI, §1641(a), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4061; Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVI, §1661(a), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2101.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this subsection, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 117–81, which was approved Dec. 27, 2021.

#### Amendments

**2021**—Pub. L. 117–81 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

Pub. L. 116–283 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

"(a) Term of Director.—The Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall be appointed for a six-year term.

"(b) Reporting.—The Missile Defense Agency shall be under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering."

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Directed Energy Programs for Ballistic and Hypersonic Missile Defense

Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVI, §1664, Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2104, provided that:

"(a) Authority of the Missile Defense Agency.—The Secretary of Defense shall delegate to the Director of the Missile Defense Agency the authority to budget for, direct, and manage directed energy programs applicable for ballistic and hypersonic missile defense missions, in coordination with other directed energy efforts of the Department of Defense.

"(b) Prioritization.—In budgeting for and directing directed energy programs applicable for ballistic and hypersonic defensive missions pursuant to subsection (a), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall—

"(1) prioritize the early research and development of technologies; and

"(2) address the transition of such technologies to industry to support future operationally relevant capabilities."

#### Application

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XVI, §1676(c)(3), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1773, as amended by Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVI, §1671(d)(1), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2113, provided that:

"(A) Terms.—Subsection (a) of section 205 of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply the day following the date on which the present incumbent in the office of the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, as of the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 12, 2017\], ceases to serve as such.

"(B) Reporting.—\[Former\] Subsection (b) of such section 205 \[subsec. (b) omitted by Pub. L. 116–283 and new subsec. (b) added by Pub. L. 117–81\] shall apply beginning on February 1, 2018. In carrying out such subsection, the Missile Defense Agency shall be under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering in the same manner as the Missile Defense Agency was under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5134.09. Any reference in such Instruction to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall be deemed to be a reference to the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, including with respect to the Under Secretary serving as the chair of the Missile Defense Executive Board."