### §410yy–2. Establishment

#### (a) In general; administration

(1) There is hereby established as a unit of the National Park System the Keweenaw National Historical Park in and near Calumet and Hancock, Michigan.

(2) The Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, and the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 [1](#410yy-2_1_target) of this title, and sections 461 to 467 [1](#410yy-2_1_target) of this title.

#### (b) Boundaries and map

(1) The boundaries of the park shall be as generally depicted on the map entitled "Keweenaw National Historical Park, Michigan", numbered NHP–KP/20012–B and dated June, 1992. Such map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the office of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, District of Columbia, and the office of the village council, Calumet, Michigan.

(2) Within 180 days after October 27, 1992, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a detailed description and map of the boundaries established under paragraph [1](#410yy-2_1_target) (a)(1) of this section.

(Pub. L. 102–543, §3, Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3570.)

#### References in Text

Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), were repealed by Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272. For disposition of sections, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

Sections 461 to 467 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), were repealed by Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272. For disposition of sections, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#410yy-2_1)

[1 So in original. Probably should be "subsection".](#410yy-2_1)