### §61h–5. Assistants to Senate Majority and Minority Leaders for Floor Operations; establishment of positions; appointment; compensation

Effective October 1, 1983, there is established within the Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders the positions of Assistant to the Majority Leader for Floor Operations and Assistant to the Minority Leader for Floor Operations, respectively. Individuals appointed to such positions by the Majority Leader and Minority Leader, respectively, shall receive compensation at a rate fixed by the appropriate Leader not to exceed the maximum annual rate of gross compensation of the Assistant Secretary of the Senate.

(Pub. L. 98–51, title I, §101(a), July 14, 1983, 97 Stat. 265.)

#### Codification

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriation Act, 1984, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1984.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 61h–5, Pub. L. 95–26, title I, May 4, 1977, 91 Stat. 80, authorizing the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader to appoint, respectively, an Assistant to the Majority Leader for Floor Operations and an Assistant to the Minority Leader for Floor Operations, was omitted in view of section 101(b) of Pub. L. 98–51, title I, July 14, 1983, 97 Stat. 265, which provided that: “Effective October 1, 1983, the positions of Assistant to the Majority Leader for Floor Operations and Assistant to the Minority Leader for Floor Operations established by the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1977 (2 U.S.C. 61h–5), are abolished.”

#### Increases in Compensation

Increases in compensation for Senate officers and employees under authority of Federal Pay Comparability Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91–656), see Salary Directives of President pro tempore of the Senate, set out as notes under section 60a–1 of this title.