### §60j–1. Capitol Police longevity compensation

Any member of the Capitol Police who by reason of the provision repealed by subsection (b) was receiving immediately prior to September 1, 1964, longevity compensation provided by section 105 [1](#60j-1_1_target) of the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1959, shall, on and after September 1, 1964, receive in lieu thereof a longevity increase under section 60j(b) of this title, in addition to any other such increases (not to exceed three) to which he may otherwise be entitled under such section. In computing the length of service of such member for the purpose of such other increases, only service performed subsequent to the date on which he began receiving longevity compensation in accordance with such section 105 [1](#60j-1_1_target) shall be counted.

(Pub. L. 88–454, §104(c), Aug. 20, 1964, 78 Stat. 550.)

#### Inapplicability of Section to Certain Employees On and After October 1, 1983

Section 60j of this title, referred to in text, not to apply, on or after Oct. 1, 1983, to any individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate except for individuals entitled to longevity compensation prior to Oct. 1, 1983, on the basis of service performed prior to such date, see section 60j–4 of this title.

#### References in Text

The provision repealed by subsection (b), referred to in text, means subsec. (c) of section 60j of this title.

Section 105 of the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1959, referred to in text, is section 105 of Pub. L. 85–570, July 31, 1958, 72 Stat. 453, which was repealed by Pub. L. 87–730, §106(d), Oct. 2, 1962, 76 Stat. 695.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 88–454, §104(d), Aug. 20, 1964, 78 Stat. 550, provided that: “This section \[enacting this section and amending section 60j of this title\] shall become effective on the first day of the month following the date of enactment of this Act \[Aug. 20, 1964\].”

[1 See References in Text note below.](#60j-1_1)