### §60–1. Authority of officers of Congress over Congressional employees

#### (a) Qualifications determinations; removal and discipline

Each officer of the Congress having responsibility for the supervision of employees, including employees appointed upon recommendation of Members of Congress, shall have authority—

(1) to determine, before the appointment of any individual as an employee under the supervision of that officer of the Congress, whether that individual possesses the qualifications necessary for the satisfactory performance of the duties and responsibilities to be assigned to him; and

(2) to remove or otherwise discipline any employee under his supervision.

#### (b) “Officer of the Congress” defined

As used in this section, the term “officer of the Congress” means—

(1) an elected officer of the Senate or House of Representatives who is not a Member of the Senate or House; and

(2) The Architect of the Capitol.

(Pub. L. 91–510, title IV, §431, Oct. 26, 1970, 84 Stat. 1190.)

#### Effective Date

Section effective immediately prior to noon on Jan. 3, 1971, see section 601(1) of Pub. L. 91–510, set out as an Effective Date of 1970 Amendment note under section 72a of this title.

#### Reduction in Number of Employee Positions; Reports

Pub. L. 103–69, title III, §307, Aug. 11, 1993, 107 Stat. 710, as amended by Pub. L. 103–283, title III, §305, July 22, 1994, 108 Stat. 1441; Pub. L. 104–316, title I, §102(a), Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3827, provided for reduction in number of employee positions on full-time equivalent basis, other than those supported by gift and trust funds, for each entity of legislative branch with more than 100 employee positions, on full-time equivalent basis, as of Sept. 30, 1992, by at least 4 percent from level as of such date, provided that such reduction was to be completed not later than Sept. 30, 1995, with at least 62.5 percent of reduction for each entity to be achieved by Sept. 30, 1994, and defined “entity of legislative branch”.