### §61f–12. Treatment of electronic services provided by Sergeant at Arms

#### (a) In general

The Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the United States Senate, and any officer, employee, or agent of the Office, shall not be treated as acquiring possession, custody, or control of any electronic mail or other electronic communication, data, or information by reason of its being transmitted, processed, or stored (whether temporarily or otherwise) through the use of an electronic system established, maintained, or operated, or the use of electronic services provided, in whole or in part by the Office.

#### (b) Effective date

This section shall apply to fiscal year 2005 and each fiscal year thereafter.

(Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, §10, Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 3170; Pub. L. 109–289, div. B, title II, §20701(c)(1), as added Pub. L. 110–5, §2, Feb. 15, 2007, 121 Stat. 38.)

#### Codification

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005, which is div. G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005.

#### Amendments

**2007**—Pub. L. 109–289, §20701(c)(1), as added by Pub. L. 110–5, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

Pub. L. 109–289, div. B, title II, §20701(c)(2), as added by Pub. L. 110–5, §2, Feb. 15, 2007, 121 Stat. 38, provided that: “The amendments made by this subsection \[amending this section\] shall take effect as though included in the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005 \[Pub. L. 108–447, div. G\].”