### §8766. Loan or gift of articles to ships' sponsors and donors

The Secretary of the Navy, under regulations prescribed by him and without expense to the United States, may lend or give—

(1) to the sponsor of a vessel the name plate or any small article of negligible or sentimental value from that vessel; and

(2) to any State, group, or organization named in section 8765 of this title any article, material, or equipment, including silver service, given by it.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 466, §7546; renumbered §8766 and amended Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §§807(d)(8), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836, 1840.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                                   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                        |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 7546              | 34 U.S.C. 546h (less applicability to 34 U.S.C. 546g). | Aug. 7, 1946, ch. 804, §3 (less applicability to §2), 60 Stat. 898. |

The words "the sponsor" are substituted for the words "any individual who sponsored" for brevity. The word "ship" and the word "person" are omitted as surplusage. The words "the loans or gifts described in this section shall be made" are omitted as unnecessary, and the words "under regulations prescribed by him" are substituted for the words "subject to such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy" for brevity.

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, §807(d)(8), renumbered section 7546 of this title as this section.

Par. (2). Pub. L. 115–232, §809(a), substituted "section 8765" for "section 7545".

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.