### §1708a. Annual report requirement

#### (a) Repealed. Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, §8218(b), Oct. 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 4132

#### (b) Audit

The Government Accountability Office shall, not later than December 31, 2013, and every 3 years thereafter—

(1) conduct and supervise an audit and investigation relating to the programs and operations of the—

(A) Office; or

(B) certain programs within the Office, including—

(i) the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program;

(ii) the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center; or

(iii) the National Youth Anti-drug Media Campaign; and

  

(2) provide the Director and the appropriate congressional committees with a report containing an evaluation of and recommendations on the—

(A) policies and activities of the programs and operations subject to the audit and investigation;

(B) economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of the reviewed programs and operations; and

(C) policy or management changes needed to prevent and detect fraud and abuse in such programs and operations.

(Pub. L. 109–469, title II, §203, Dec. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 3517; Pub. L. 112–234, §2(c), Dec. 28, 2012, 126 Stat. 1624; Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, §8218(b), Oct. 24, 2018, 132 Stat. 4132.)

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006, and not as part of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–271 struck out subsec. (a) which required annual submission to Congress of a report on the national media campaign.

**2012**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 112–234, §2(c)(1), substituted ", 2013, and every 3 years thereafter," for "of each year" in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 112–234, §2(c)(2), substituted "not later than December 31, 2013, and every 3 years thereafter—" for "at a frequency of not less than once per year—" in introductory provisions.