### §3227a. Degree-granting authority

#### (a) In general

Beginning on the transfer date, under regulations prescribed by the Director of National Intelligence, the President of the National Intelligence University may, upon the recommendation of the faculty of the University, confer appropriate degrees upon graduates who meet the degree requirements.

#### (b) Limitation

A degree may not be conferred under this section unless—

(1) the Secretary of Education has recommended approval of the degree in accordance with the Federal Policy Governing Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies; and

(2) the University is accredited by the appropriate academic accrediting agency or organization to award the degree, as determined by the Secretary of Education.

#### (c) Congressional notification requirements

#### (1) Actions on nonaccreditation

Beginning on the transfer date, the Director shall promptly—

(A) notify the congressional intelligence committees of any action by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, or other appropriate academic accrediting agency or organization, to not accredit the University to award any new or existing degree; and

(B) submit to such committees a report containing an explanation of any such action.

#### (2) Modification or redesignation of degree-granting authority

Beginning on the transfer date, upon any modification or redesignation of existing degree-granting authority, the Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report containing—

(A) the rationale for the proposed modification or redesignation; and

(B) any subsequent recommendation of the Secretary of Education with respect to the proposed modification or redesignation.

(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title X, §1032, as added Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title III, §305(a), Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2366.)