### §8684. Overhaul of naval vessels: competition between public and private shipyards

The Secretary of the Navy should ensure, in any case in which the Secretary awards a project for repair, alteration, overhaul, or conversion of a naval vessel following competition between public and private shipyards, that each of the following criteria is met:

(1) The bid of any public shipyard for the award includes—

(A) the full costs to the United States associated with future retirement benefits of civilian employees of that shipyard consistent with computation methodology established by Office of Management and Budget Circular A–76; and

(B) in a case in which equal access to the Navy supply system is not allowed to public and private shipyards, a pro rata share of the costs of the Navy supply system.

  

(2) Costs applicable to oversight of the contract by the appropriate Navy supervisor of shipbuilding, conversion, and repair are added to the bid of any private shipyard for the purpose of comparability analysis.

(3) The award is made using the results of the comparability analysis.

(Added Pub. L. 100–456, div. A, title XII, §1225(a)(1), Sept. 29, 1988, 102 Stat. 2054, §7313; renumbered §7314, Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XVI, §1622(a), Nov. 29, 1989, 103 Stat. 1604; renumbered §8684, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(2), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8684 was renumbered section 9252 of this title.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7314 of this title as this section.

**1989**—Pub. L. 101–189 renumbered section 7313 as section 7314 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 100–456, div. A, title XII, §1225(b), Sept. 29, 1988, 102 Stat. 2055, provided that: "Section 7313 \[now 8684\] of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), applies to any award by the Secretary of the Navy made after the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Sept. 29, 1988\] for repair, alteration, overhaul, or conversion of a naval vessel following competition between public and private shipyards."