### §8664. Suspension of construction in case of treaty

In case of a treaty for the limitation of naval armament to which the United States is a signatory, the President may suspend so much of the authorized naval construction as is necessary to bring the naval vessels of the United States within the limitations agreed upon. Such a suspension does not apply to vessels under construction at the time the suspension is made.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 449, §7294; renumbered §8664, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §807(d)(2), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1836.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*                       | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                        |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 7294              | 34 U.S.C. 498h (as applicable to vessels). | May 17, 1938, ch. 243, §9 (as applicable to vessels), 52 Stat. 403. |

The words "the United States would welcome and support an international conference for naval limitations" are omitted as a declaration of purpose without permanent or general significance. The word "further" is omitted since there is no such agreement in existence today. The word "international" is omitted as unnecessary since the word "treaty" necessarily involves an international understanding. The word "may" is substituted for the words "is hereby authorized and empowered to" for brevity.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 7294 of this title as this section.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.