### §8678a. Limitation on decommissioning or inactivating a battle force ship before the end of expected service life

(a) Limitation.—The Secretary of the Navy may not decommission or inactivate a battle force ship before the end of the expected service life of the ship.

(b) Waiver.—The Secretary of the Navy may waive the limitation under subsection (a) with respect to a battle force ship if—

(1) the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees the certification described in subsection (c) with respect to such ship; and

(2) a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on which such certification was submitted.

  

(c) Certification Described.—A certification described in this subsection is a certification that—

(1)(A) maintaining the battle force ship in a reduced operating status is not feasible;

(B) maintaining the ship with reduced capability is not feasible;

(C) maintaining the ship as a Navy Reserve unit is not feasible;

(D) transferring the ship to the Coast Guard is not feasible; and

(E) maintaining the ship is not required to support the most recent national defense strategy required by section 113(g) of this title; and

(2) includes an explanation of—

(A) the options assessed and the rationale for the determinations under subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (1); and

(B) the rationale for the determination under subparagraph (E) of such paragraph.

  

(d) Form.—A certification submitted under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

(e) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "battle force ship" means the following:

(A) A commissioned United States Ship warship capable of contributing to combat operations.

(B) A United States Naval Ship that contributes directly to Navy warfighting or support missions.

  

(2) The term "expected service life" means the number of years a naval vessel is expected to be in service.

(Added Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title X, §1014(a), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 1894.)