### §10553. Annual report to Congress; grant accountability

#### (a) Annual report

Not later than November 30th of each year, the COPS Director and the BJA Director shall each submit a report to the Congress regarding the activities carried out under this subchapter. Each such report shall include, for the preceding fiscal year, the number of grants funded under this subchapter, the amount of funds provided under those grants, and the activities for which those funds were used.

#### (b) Grant accountability

Section 10706 of this title (relating to grant accountability) shall apply to grants awarded by the COPS Director and the BJA Director under this subchapter. For purposes of the preceding sentence, any references in section 10706 of this title to the Attorney General shall be considered references to the COPS Director or the BJA Director, as appropriate, and any references in that section to subchapter XXXVIII shall be considered references to this subchapter.

(Pub. L. 90–351, title I, §2703, as added Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, §1108(b), Oct. 28, 2000, 114 Stat. 1502; amended Pub. L. 109–271, §8(j)(2), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 767; Pub. L. 115–141, div. S, title V, §502(3), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 1130.)

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 3797c of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–141, §502(3)(A), inserted "; grant accountability" after "Congress" in section catchline.

Pub. L. 115–141, §502(3)(B)–(D), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, substituted "COPS Director and the BJA Director shall each" for "Director shall", and added subsec. (b).

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–271 substituted "Director" for "Attorney General".