### §2354. Easements for electric, telephone, or broadband service facilities

#### (a) Definition of water resources development project

In this section, the term "water resources development project" means a project under the administrative jurisdiction of the Corps of Engineers that is subject to part 327 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).

#### (b) No consideration for easements

The Secretary may not collect consideration for an easement across water resources development project land for the electric, telephone, or broadband service facilities of nonprofit organizations eligible for financing under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 et seq.).

#### (c) Administrative expenses

Nothing in this section affects the authority of the Secretary under section 2695 of title 10 or under section 9701 of title 31 to collect funds to cover reasonable administrative expenses incurred by the Secretary.

(Pub. L. 114–322, title I, §1172, Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1671.)

#### References in Text

The Rural Electrification Act of 1936, referred to in subsec. (b), is act May 20, 1936, ch. 432, 49 Stat. 1363, which is classified generally to chapter 31 (§901 et seq.) of Title 7, Agriculture. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 901 of Title 7 and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, and also as part of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act or the WIIN Act, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### "Secretary" Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 1002 of Pub. L. 114–322, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.