### §2328. Challenge cost-sharing program for management of recreation facilities

#### (a) In general

The Secretary is authorized to develop and implement a program to share the cost of managing recreation facilities and natural resources at water resource development projects under the Secretary's jurisdiction.

#### (b) Cooperative agreements

To implement the program under this section, the Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with non-Federal public and private entities to provide for operation and management of recreation facilities and natural resources at civil works projects under the Secretary's jurisdiction where such facilities and resources are being maintained at complete Federal expense.

#### (c) User fees

#### (1) Collection of fees

#### (A) In general

The Secretary may allow a non-Federal public entity that has entered into an agreement pursuant to subsection (b) to collect user fees for the use of developed recreation sites and facilities, whether developed or constructed by that entity or the Department of the Army.

#### (B) Use of visitor reservation services

A non-Federal public entity described in subparagraph (A) may use, to manage fee collections and reservations under this section, any visitor reservation service that the Secretary has provided for by contract or interagency agreement, subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

#### (2) Use of fees

A non-Federal public entity that collects user fees under paragraph (1)—

(A) may retain up to 100 percent of the fees collected, as determined by the Secretary; and

(B) notwithstanding section 460d–3(b)(4) of title 16, shall use any retained amount for operation, maintenance, and management activities at the recreation site at which the fee is collected.

#### (3) Terms and conditions

The authority of a non-Federal public entity under this subsection shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines necessary to protect the interests of the United States.

#### (d) Contributions

For purposes of carrying out this section the Secretary may accept contributions of funds, materials, and services from non-Federal public and private entities. Any funds received by the Secretary under this section shall be deposited into the account in the Treasury of the United States entitled "Contributions and Advances, Rivers and Harbors, Corps of Engineers (8862)" and shall be available until expended to carry out the purposes of this section.

(Pub. L. 102–580, title II, §225, Oct. 31, 1992, 106 Stat. 4838; Pub. L. 104–303, title II, §236(b), Oct. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 3705; Pub. L. 114–322, title I, §1155, Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1663.)

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1992, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 114–322 added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

**1996**—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104–303 substituted "(8862)" for "(8662)".

#### Recreation Partnership Initiative

Pub. L. 104–303, title V, §519, Oct. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 3765, as amended by Pub. L. 106–53, title III, §350(a), Aug. 17, 1999, 113 Stat. 310, provided that:

"(a) In General.—The Secretary shall promote Federal, non-Federal, and private sector cooperation in creating public recreation opportunities and developing the necessary supporting infrastructure at water resources projects of the Corps of Engineers.

"(b) Infrastructure Improvements.—

"(1) Recreation infrastructure improvements.—In determining the feasibility of the public-private cooperative under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide such infrastructure improvements as are necessary to support a potential private recreational development at the Raystown Lake Project, Pennsylvania, generally in accordance with the Master Plan Update (1994) for the project.

"(2) Agreement.—The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with an appropriate non-Federal public entity to ensure that the infrastructure improvements constructed by the Secretary on non-project lands pursuant to paragraph (1) are transferred to and operated and maintained by the non-Federal public entity.

"(3) Engineering and design services.—The Secretary may perform engineering and design services for project infrastructure expected to be associated with the development of the site at Raystown Lake, Hesston, Pennsylvania.

"(4) Authorization of appropriations.—There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $3,000,000.

"(c) Report.—Not later than December 31, 1998, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report on the results of the cooperative efforts carried out under this section, including the improvements required by subsection (b)."

#### "Secretary" Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 3 of Pub. L. 102–580, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.