### §2330a. Monitoring ecosystem restoration

#### (a) In general

In conducting a feasibility study for a project (or a component of a project) for ecosystem restoration, the Secretary shall ensure that the recommended project includes, as an integral part of the project, a plan for monitoring the success of the ecosystem restoration.

#### (b) Monitoring plan

The monitoring plan shall—

(1) include a description of the monitoring activities to be carried out, the criteria for ecosystem restoration success, and the estimated cost and duration of the monitoring; and

(2) specify that the monitoring shall continue until such time as the Secretary determines that the criteria for ecosystem restoration success will be met.

#### (c) Cost share

For a period of 10 years from completion of construction of a project (or a component of a project) for ecosystem restoration, the Secretary shall consider the cost of carrying out the monitoring as a project cost. If the monitoring plan under subsection (b) requires monitoring beyond the 10-year period, the cost of monitoring shall be a non-Federal responsibility.

#### (d) Inclusions

A monitoring plan under subsection (b) shall include a description of—

(1) the types and number of restoration activities to be conducted;

(2) the physical action to be undertaken to achieve the restoration objectives of the project;

(3) the functions and values that will result from the restoration plan; and

(4) a contingency plan for taking corrective actions in cases in which monitoring demonstrates that restoration measures are not achieving ecological success in accordance with criteria described in the monitoring plan.

#### (e) Conclusion of operation and maintenance responsibility

The responsibility of a non-Federal interest for operation and maintenance of the nonstructural and nonmechanical elements of a project, or a component of a project, for ecosystem restoration shall cease 10 years after the date on which the Secretary makes a determination of success under subsection (b)(2).

#### (f) Federal obligations

The Secretary is not responsible for the operation or maintenance of any components of a project with respect to which a non-Federal interest is released from obligations under subsection (e).

(Pub. L. 110–114, title II, §2039, Nov. 8, 2007, 121 Stat. 1100; Pub. L. 114–322, title I, §1161, Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1668.)

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2016**—Subsecs. (d) to (f). Pub. L. 114–322 added subsecs. (d) to (f).

#### "Secretary" Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 110–114, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.