### §2327a. Rehabilitation of Corps of Engineers constructed pump stations

#### (a) Definitions

In this section:

#### (1) Eligible pump station

The term "eligible pump station" means a pump station—

(A) constructed, in whole or in part, by the Corps of Engineers for flood risk management purposes;

(B) that the Secretary has identified as having a major deficiency; and

(C) the failure of which the Secretary has determined would impair the function of a flood risk management project constructed by the Corps of Engineers.

#### (2) Rehabilitation

#### (A) In general

The term "rehabilitation", with respect to an eligible pump station, means to address a major deficiency of the eligible pump station caused by long-term degradation of the foundation, construction materials, or engineering systems or components of the eligible pump station.

#### (B) Inclusions

The term "rehabilitation", with respect to an eligible pump station, includes—

(i) the incorporation into the eligible pump station of—

(I) current design standards;

(II) efficiency improvements; and

(III) associated drainage; and

  

(ii) increasing the capacity of the eligible pump station, subject to the condition that the increase shall—

(I) significantly decrease the risk of loss of life and property damage; or

(II) decrease total lifecycle rehabilitation costs for the eligible pump station.

#### (b) Authorization

The Secretary may carry out rehabilitation of an eligible pump station, if the Secretary determines that the rehabilitation is feasible.

#### (c) Cost sharing

The non-Federal interest for the eligible pump station shall—

(1) provide 35 percent of the cost of rehabilitation of an eligible pump station carried out under this section; and

(2) provide all land, easements, rights-of-way, and necessary relocations associated with the rehabilitation described in subparagraph (A), at no cost to the Federal Government.

#### (d) Agreement required

The rehabilitation of an eligible pump station pursuant to this section shall be initiated only after a non-Federal interest has entered into a binding agreement with the Secretary—

(1) to pay the non-Federal share of the costs of rehabilitation under subsection (c); and

(2) to pay 100 percent of the operation and maintenance costs of the rehabilitated eligible pump station, in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary.

#### (e) Treatment

The rehabilitation of an eligible pump station pursuant to this section shall not be considered to be a separable element of the associated flood risk management project constructed by the Corps of Engineers.

#### (f) Authorization of appropriations

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $60,000,000, to remain available until expended.

(Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title I, §133, Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2647.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### "Secretary" Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of div. AA of Pub. L. 116–260, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.