### §70102a. Port, harbor, and coastal facility security

(a) General Authority.—The Secretary may take actions described in subsection (b) to prevent or respond to an act of terrorism against—

(1) an individual, vessel, or public or commercial structure, that is—

(A) subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; and

(B) located within or adjacent to the marine environment; or

  

(2) a vessel of the United States or an individual on board that vessel.

  

(b) Specific Authority.—Under subsection (a), the Secretary may—

(1) carry out or require measures, including inspections, port and harbor patrols, the establishment of security and safety zones, and the development of contingency plans and procedures, to prevent or respond to acts of terrorism;

(2) recruit members of the Regular Coast Guard and the Coast Guard Reserve and train members of the Regular Coast Guard and the Coast Guard Reserve in the techniques of preventing and responding to acts of terrorism; and

(3) dispatch properly trained and qualified armed Coast Guard personnel on vessels and public or commercial structures on or adjacent to waters subject to United States jurisdiction to deter or respond to acts of terrorism or transportation security incidents, as defined in section 70101 of title 46, United States Code.

  

(c) Definitions, Administration, and Enforcement.—This section shall be treated as part of chapter 700 for purposes of sections 70031, 70032, 70034, 70035, and 70036.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 115–282, title IV, §408(a), (b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4268.)

#### Codification

Section, as added and amended by Pub. L. 115–282, is based on subsecs. (a) and (b) of Pub. L. 92–340, §7, as added Pub. L. 99–399, title IX, §906, Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 890; amended Pub. L. 104–324, title III, §302, Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3917; Pub. L. 107–295, title I, §107(a), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2088, which was formerly classified to section 1226(a), (b) of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters, before being transferred to this chapter and renumbered as this section. Subsections (a) and (b) of section 7 of Pub. L. 92–340 were also renumbered as section 70116 of this title by Pub. L. 115–282, title IV, §402(b)(1), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4264.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, §408(a), transferred section catchline and subsecs. (a) and (b) of section 7 of Pub. L. 92–340 to this chapter and redesignated them as this section. See Codification note above.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 115–282, §408(b), added subsec. (c).