### §2445a. Definitions

(a) Major Automated Information System Program.—In this chapter, the term "major automated information system program" means a Department of Defense program for the acquisition of an automated information system (either as a product or a service) if—

(1) the program is designated by the Secretary of Defense, or a designee of the Secretary, as a major automated information system program; or

(2) the dollar value of the program is estimated to exceed—

(A) $32,000,000 in fiscal year 2000 constant dollars for all program costs in a single fiscal year;

(B) $126,000,000 in fiscal year 2000 constant dollars for all program acquisition costs for the entire program; or

(C) $378,000,000 in fiscal year 2000 constant dollars for the total life-cycle costs of the program (including operation and maintenance costs).

  

(b) Adjustment.—The Secretary of Defense may adjust the amounts (and base fiscal year) set forth in subsection (a) on the basis of Department of Defense escalation rates. An adjustment under this subsection shall be effective after the Secretary transmits a written notification of the adjustment to the congressional defense committees.

(c) Increments.—In the event any increment of a major automated information system program separately meets the requirements for treatment as a major automated information system program, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to such increment as well as to the overall major automated information system program of which such increment is a part.

(d) Other Major Information Technology Investment Program.—In this chapter, the term "other major information technology investment program" means the following:

(1) An investment that is designated by the Secretary of Defense, or a designee of the Secretary, as a "pre-Major Automated Information System" or "pre-MAIS" program.

(2) Any other investment in automated information system products or services that is expected to exceed the thresholds established in subsection (a), as adjusted under subsection (b), but is not considered to be a major automated information system program because a formal acquisition decision has not yet been made with respect to such investment.

  

(e) Full Deployment Decision.—In this chapter, the term "full deployment decision" means, with respect to a major automated information system program, the final decision made by the Milestone Decision Authority authorizing an increment of the program to deploy software for operational use.

(f) Full Deployment.—In this chapter, the term "full deployment" means, with respect to a major automated information system program, the fielding of an increment of the program in accordance with the terms of a full deployment decision.

(g) Extension of a Program.—In this chapter, the term "extension of a program" means, with respect to a major automated information system program or other major information technology investment program, the further deployment or planned deployment to additional users of the system which has already been found operationally effective and suitable by an independent test agency or the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, beyond the scope planned in the original estimate or information originally submitted on the program.

(Added Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VIII, §816(a)(1), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2323; amended Pub. L. 110–417, \[div. A\], title VIII, §812(a)(1), (2), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4525; Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title VIII, §841(c), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2418; Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title X, §1092(a), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 877.)

#### Amendments

**2013**—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 113–66 added subsec. (g).

**2009**—Subsecs. (e), (f). Pub. L. 111–84 added subsecs. (e) and (f).

**2008**—Pub. L. 110–417, §812(a)(2), substituted "Definitions" for "Major automated information system program defined" in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110–417, §812(a)(1)(A), substituted "Major Automated Information System Program" for "In General" in heading.

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 110–417, §812(a)(1)(B), added subsec. (d).

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VIII, §816(c), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2326, provided that:

"(1) In general.—The amendments made by subsection (a) \[enacting this chapter\] shall take effect on January 1, 2008, and shall apply with respect to any major automated information system program for which amounts are requested in the budget of the President (as submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code) for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2008, regardless of whether the acquisition of the automated information system to be acquired under the program was initiated before, on, or after January 1, 2008.

"(2) Report requirement.—Subsection (b) \[120 Stat. 2326\] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 17, 2006\]."

#### Science and Technology Activities To Support Business Systems Information Technology Acquisition Programs

Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title II, §217, Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 770, provided that:

"(a) In General.—The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, the Deputy Chief Management Officer, and the Chief Information Officer, shall establish a set of science, technology, and innovation activities to improve the acquisition outcomes of major automated information systems through improved performance and reduced developmental and life cycle costs.

"(b) Execution of Activities.—The activities established under subsection (a) shall be carried out by such military departments and Defense Agencies as the Under Secretary and the Deputy Chief Management Officer consider appropriate.

"(c) Activities.—

"(1) In general.—The set of activities established under subsection (a) may include the following:

"(A) Development of capabilities in Department of Defense laboratories, test centers, and federally funded research and development centers to provide technical support for acquisition program management and business process re-engineering activities.

"(B) Funding of intramural and extramural research and development activities as described in subsection (e).

"(2) Current activities.—The Secretary shall identify the current activities described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) that are being carried out as of the date of the enactment of this Act \[Nov. 25, 2015\]. The Secretary shall consider such current activities in determining the set of activities to establish pursuant to subsection (a).

"(d) Gap Analysis.—In establishing the set of activities under subsection (a), not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Nov. 25, 2015\], the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of the Defense Agencies, shall conduct a gap analysis to identify activities that are not, as of such date, being pursued in the current science and technology program of the Department. The Secretary shall use such analysis in determining—

"(1) the set of activities to establish pursuant to subsection (a) that carry out the purposes specified in subsection (c)(1); and

"(2) the proposed funding requirements and timelines.

"(e) Funding of Intramural and Extramural Research and Development.—

"(1) In general.—In carrying out the set of activities required by subsection (a), the Secretary may award grants or contracts to eligible entities to carry out intramural or extramural research and development in areas of interest described in paragraph (3).

"(2) Eligible entities.—For purposes of this subsection, an eligible entity includes the following:

"(A) Entities in the defense industry.

"(B) Institutions of higher education.

"(C) Small businesses.

"(D) Nontraditional defense contractors (as defined in section 2302 of title 10, United States Code).

"(E) Federally funded research and development centers, primarily for the purpose of improving technical expertise to support acquisition efforts.

"(F) Nonprofit research institutions.

"(G) Government laboratories and test centers, primarily for the purpose of improving technical expertise to support acquisition efforts.

"(3) Areas of interest.—The areas of interest described in this paragraph are the following:

"(A) Management innovation, including personnel and financial management policy innovation.

"(B) Business process re-engineering.

"(C) Systems engineering of information technology business systems.

"(D) Cloud computing to support business systems and business processes.

"(E) Software development, including systems and techniques to limit unique interfaces and simplify processes to customize commercial software to meet the needs of the Department of Defense.

"(F) Hardware development, including systems and techniques to limit unique interfaces and simplify processes to customize commercial hardware to meet the needs of the Department of Defense.

"(G) Development of methodologies and tools to support development and operational test of large and complex business systems.

"(H) Analysis tools to allow decision-makers to make tradeoffs between requirements, costs, technical risks, and schedule in major automated information system acquisition programs.

"(I) Information security in major automated information system systems.

"(J) Innovative acquisition policies and practices to streamline acquisition of information technology systems.

"(K) Such other areas as the Secretary considers appropriate.

"(f) Priorities.—

"(1) In general.—In carrying out the set of activities required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall give priority to—

"(A) projects that—

"(i) address the innovation and technology needs of the Department of Defense; and

"(ii) support activities of initiatives, programs, and offices identified by the Under Secretary and Deputy Chief Management Officer; and

"(B) the projects and programs identified in paragraph (2).

"(2) Projects and programs identified.—The projects and programs identified in this paragraph are the following:

"(A) Major automated information system programs.

"(B) Projects and programs under the oversight of the Deputy Chief Management Officer.

"(C) Projects and programs relating to defense procurement acquisition policy.

"(D) Projects and programs of the agencies and field activities of the Office of the Secretary of Defense that support business missions such as finance, human resources, security, management, logistics, and contract management.

"(E) Military and civilian personnel policy development for information technology workforce."