### §20931. Registration of sex offenders released from military corrections facilities or upon conviction

The Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Attorney General the information described in section 20914 of this title to be included in the National Sex Offender Registry and the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website regarding persons—

(1)(A) released from military corrections facilities; or

(B) convicted if the sentences adjudged by courts-martial under chapter 47 of title 10 (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) do not include confinement; and

(2) required to register under this subchapter.

(Pub. L. 109–248, title I, §128A, as added Pub. L. 114–22, title V, §502(a), May 29, 2015, 129 Stat. 258.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website, referred to in text, is located at https://www.nsopw.gov.

This subchapter, referred to in par. (2), was in the original "this title", meaning title I of Pub. L. 109–248, July 27, 2006, 120 Stat. 590, known as the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under section 10101 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 16928a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of title V of Pub. L. 114–22, which enacted this section, as the "Military Sex Offender Reporting Act of 2015", see section 501 of Pub. L. 114–22, set out as a Short Title of 2015 Act note under section 10101 of this title.