### §937. Art. 137. Articles to be explained

(a)(1) The sections of this title (articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) specified in paragraph (3) shall be carefully explained to each enlisted member at the time of (or within fourteen days after)—

(A) the member's initial entrance on active duty; or

(B) the member's initial entrance into a duty status with a reserve component.

  

(2) Such sections (articles) shall be explained again—

(A) after the member has completed six months of active duty or, in the case of a member of a reserve component, after the member has completed basic or recruit training; and

(B) at the time when the member reenlists.

  

(3) This subsection applies with respect to sections 802, 803, 807–815, 825, 827, 831, 837, 838, 855, 877–934, and 937–939 of this title (articles 2, 3, 7–15, 25, 27, 31, 37, 38, 55, 77–134, and 137–139).

(b) The text of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and of the regulations prescribed by the President under such Code shall be made available to a member on active duty or to a member of a reserve component, upon request by the member, for the member's personal examination.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 78; Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title VIII, §804(d), Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3907; Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XI, §1152, Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 468; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LXI, §5503, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2960; Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(c)(1)(R), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1599.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(c)(1)(R), (4), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1599, provided that, effective immediately after the amendment made by section 5503 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out below, takes effect as provided for in section 5542 of that Act, this section is amended by striking "(the Uniform Code of Military Justice)" each place it appears as follows:

(1) In subsection (a)(1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A);

(2) In subsection (b) \[probably should be "(b)(1)"\], in the matter preceding subparagraph (A); and

(3) In subsection (d), in the matter preceding paragraph (1).

See 2017 Amendment notes below.

Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LXI, §5503, title LXIII, §5542, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2960, 2967, made amendments to this section effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations. After such effective date, this section will read:

#### §937. Art. 137. Articles to be explained

(a) Enlisted Members.—(1) The sections (articles) of this chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) specified in paragraph (3) shall be carefully explained to each enlisted member at the time of (or within fourteen days after)—

(A) the member's initial entrance on active duty; or

(B) the member's initial entrance into a duty status with a reserve component.

  

(2) Such sections (articles) shall be explained again—

(A) after the member has completed six months of active duty or, in the case of a member of a reserve component, after the member has completed basic or recruit training; and

(B) at the time when the member reenlists.

  

(3) This subsection applies with respect to sections 802, 803, 807–815, 825, 827, 831, 837, 838, 855, 877–934, and 937–939 of this title (articles 2, 3, 7–15, 25, 27, 31, 37, 38, 55, 77–134, and 137–139).

(b) Officers.—(1) The sections (articles) of this chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) specified in paragraph (2) shall be carefully explained to each officer at the time of (or within six months after)—

(A) the initial entrance of the officer on active duty as an officer; or

(B) the initial commissioning of the officer in a reserve component.

  

(2) This subsection applies with respect to the sections (articles) specified in subsection (a)(3) and such other sections (articles) as the Secretary concerned may prescribe by regulation.

(c) Training for Certain Officers.—Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, officers with the authority to convene courts-martial or to impose non-judicial punishment shall receive periodic training regarding the purposes and administration of this chapter. Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, officers assigned to duty in a joint command or a combatant command, who have such authority, shall receive additional specialized training regarding the purposes and administration of this chapter with respect to joint commands and the combatant commands.

(d) Availability and Maintenance of Text.—The text of this chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) and the text of the regulations prescribed by the President under this chapter shall be—

(1) made available to a member on active duty or to a member of a reserve component, upon request by the member, for the member's personal examination; and

(2) maintained by the Secretary of Defense in electronic formats that are updated periodically and made available on the Internet.

See 2016 Amendment notes below.

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                       |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 937               | 50:733.              | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 137), 64 Stat. 144. |

The word "each" is substituted for the word "every". The word "member" is substituted for the word "person". The words "in \[any of\] the armed forces of the United States" are omitted as surplusage.

#### References in Text

The Uniform Code of Military Justice, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1) and (b), is classified to this chapter.

#### Amendments

**2017**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 115–91, §1081(c)(1)(R)(i), struck out "(the Uniform Code of Military Justice)" after "this chapter" in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 115–91, §1081(c)(1)(R)(ii), which directed amendment of subsec. (b) by striking out "(the Uniform Code of Military Justice)" after "this chapter" in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), was executed by making the amendment in introductory provisions of par. (1) of subsec. (b), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 115–91, §1081(c)(1)(R)(iii), struck out "(the Uniform Code of Military Justice)" after "this chapter" in introductory provisions.

**2016**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 114–328, §5503(1), inserted heading.

Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 114–328, §5503(1), substituted "The sections (articles) of this chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice)" for "The sections of this title (articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)" in introductory provisions.

Subsecs. (b) to (d). Pub. L. 114–328, §5503(2), (3), added subsecs. (b) to (d) and struck out former subsec. (b) which read as follows: "The text of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and of the regulations prescribed by the President under such Code shall be made available to a member on active duty or to a member of a reserve component, upon request by the member, for the member's personal examination."

**1996**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 104–106 substituted "within fourteen days" for "within six days".

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–661 amended section generally, inserting provisions relating to reserve components.

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–91 effective immediately after the amendments made by div. E (§§5001–5542) of Pub. L. 114–328 take effect as provided for in section 5542 of that Act (10 U.S.C. 801 note), see section 1081(c)(4) of Pub. L. 115–91, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on the date designated by the President, not later than the first day of the first calendar month beginning two years after Dec. 23, 2016, with implementing regulations prescribed by the President not later than one year after Dec. 23, 2016, and with provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 99–661 effective the earlier of (1) the last day of the 120-day period beginning on Nov. 14, 1986; or (2) the date specified in an Executive order for such amendment to take effect, see section 808 of Pub. L. 99–661, set out as a note under section 802 of this title.