### §47501. Definitions

In this subchapter—

(1) "airport" means a public-use airport as defined in section 47102 of this title.

(2) "airport operator" means—

(A) for an airport serving air carriers that have certificates from the Secretary of Transportation, any person holding an airport operating certificate issued under section 44706 of this title; and

(B) for any other airport, the person operating the airport.

(Pub. L. 103–272, §1(e), July 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 1284.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised  Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*   | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------ | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 47501(1)           | 49 App.:2101(1).       | Feb. 18, 1980, Pub. L. 96–193, §101(1), 94 Stat. 50; restated Sept. 3, 1982, Pub. L. 97–248, §524(b)(1), 96 Stat. 696; Dec. 30, 1987, Pub. L. 100–223, §103(f), 101 Stat. 1489. |
|                    | 49 App.:2101(3).       | Feb. 18, 1980, Pub. L. 96–193, §101(3), 94 Stat. 50.                                                                                                                            |
| 47501(2)           | 49 App.:2101(2).       | Feb. 18, 1980, Pub. L. 96–193, §101(2), 94 Stat. 50; restated Sept. 3, 1982, Pub. L. 97–248, §524(b)(2), 96 Stat. 696.                                                          |
|                    | 49 App.:1551(b)(1)(E). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, §1601(b)(1)(E); added Oct. 4, 1984, Pub. L. 98–443, §3(e), 98 Stat. 1704.                                                          |

In this section, the words "the term" are omitted as surplus.

In clause (1), the text of 49 App.:2101(3) is omitted as surplus because the complete name of the Secretary of Transportation is used the first time the term appears in a section.

In clause (2), the word "valid" is omitted as surplus.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Mitigation of Military Helicopter Noise

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, §1087, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3877, provided that:

"(a) Process for Tracking Complaints.—The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, shall develop a process to receive, track, and analyze complaints of military rotary wing aircraft noise in the National Capital Region that are registered on the noise inquiry websites of Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and Dulles International Airport.

"(b) National Capital Region.—In this section, the term 'National Capital Region' has the meaning given such term in section 2674(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code."

#### Addressing Community Noise Concerns

Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, §175, Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3228, provided that: "When proposing a new area navigation departure procedure, or amending an existing procedure that would direct aircraft between the surface and 6,000 feet above ground level over noise sensitive areas, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall consider the feasibility of dispersal headings or other lateral track variations to address community noise concerns, if—

"(1) the affected airport operator, in consultation with the affected community, submits a request to the Administrator for such a consideration;

"(2) the airport operator's request would not, in the judgment of the Administrator, conflict with the safe and efficient operation of the national airspace system; and

"(3) the effect of a modified departure procedure would not significantly increase noise over noise sensitive areas, as determined by the Administrator."

#### Aviation Noise Complaints

Pub. L. 112–95, title V, §510, Feb. 14, 2012, 126 Stat. 107, provided that: "Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act \[Feb. 14, 2012\], each owner or operator of a large hub airport (as defined in section 40102(a) of title 49, United States Code) shall publish on an Internet Web site of the airport a telephone number to receive aviation noise complaints related to the airport."

#### Airport Noise Study

Pub. L. 106–181, title VII, §745, Apr. 5, 2000, 114 Stat. 178, as amended by Pub. L. 106–528, §7(a), Nov. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 2521, provided that:

"(a) In General.—The Secretary \[of Transportation\] shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study on airport noise in the United States.

"(b) Contents of Study.—In conducting the study, the National Academy of Sciences shall examine—

"(1) the threshold of noise at which health begins to be affected;

"(2) the effectiveness of noise abatement programs at airports located in the United States;

"(3) the impacts of aircraft noise on communities, including schools; and

"(4) the noise assessment practices of the Federal Aviation Administration and whether such practices fairly and accurately reflect the burden of noise on communities.

"(c) Report.—Not later than 18 months after the date of the agreement entered into under subsection (a), the National Academy of Sciences shall transmit to the Secretary a report on the results of the study. Upon receipt of the report, the Secretary shall transmit a copy of the report to the appropriate committees of Congress.

"(d) Authorization of Appropriations.—There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section."

#### Nonmilitary Helicopter Noise

Pub. L. 106–181, title VII, §747, Apr. 5, 2000, 114 Stat. 179, required the Secretary of Transportation to conduct a study on the effects of nonmilitary helicopter noise on individuals in densely populated areas in the continental United States and develop recommendations for the reduction of the effects of nonmilitary helicopter noise, focusing on air traffic control procedures to address helicopter noise problems and the needs of law enforcement, considering the views of representatives of the helicopter industry, and report to Congress a report on the study not later than 1 year after Apr. 5, 2000.