### §3332. Guidance and reporting requirement regarding the interactions between the intelligence community and entertainment industry

#### (a) Definitions

In this section:

#### (1) Engagement

The term "engagement"—

(A) means any significant interaction between an element of the intelligence community and an entertainment industry entity for the purposes of contributing to an entertainment product intended to be heard, read, viewed, or otherwise experienced by the public; and

(B) does not include routine inquiries made by the press or news media to the public affairs office of an intelligence community.

#### (2) Entertainment industry entity

The term "entertainment industry entity" means an entity that creates, produces, promotes, or distributes a work of entertainment intended to be heard, read, viewed, or otherwise experienced by an audience, including—

(A) theater productions, motion pictures, radio broadcasts, television broadcasts, podcasts, webcasts, other sound or visual recording, music, or dance;

(B) books and other published material; and

(C) such other entertainment activity, as determined by the Director of National Intelligence.

#### (b) Director of National Intelligence guidance

#### (1) In general

Not later than 180 days after May 5, 2017, the Director of National Intelligence shall issue, and release to the public, guidance regarding engagements by elements of the intelligence community with entertainment industry entities.

#### (2) Criteria

The guidance required by paragraph (1) shall—

(A) permit an element of the intelligence community to conduct engagements, if the head of the element, or a designee of such head, provides prior approval; and

(B) require an unclassified annual report to the congressional intelligence committees regarding engagements.

#### (c) Annual report

Each report required by subsection (b)(2)(B) shall include the following:

(1) A description of the nature and duration of each engagement included in the review.

(2) The cost incurred by the United States Government for each such engagement.

(3) A description of the benefits to the United States Government for each such engagement.

(4) A determination of whether any information was declassified, and whether any classified information was improperly disclosed, or each such engagement.

(5) A description of the work produced through each such engagement.

(Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title III, §308, May 5, 2017, 131 Stat. 813.)

#### Definitions

For definitions of "intelligence community" and "congressional intelligence committees", referred to in text, see section 2 of div. N of Pub. L. 115–31, set out as a note under section 3003 of this title.