### §2384a. Supplies: economic order quantities

(a)(1) An agency referred to in section 2303(a) of this title shall procure supplies in such quantity as (A) will result in the total cost and unit cost most advantageous to the United States, where practicable, and (B) does not exceed the quantity reasonably expected to be required by the agency.

(2) The Secretary of Defense shall take paragraph (1) into account in approving rates of obligation of appropriations under section 2204 of this title.

(b) Each solicitation for a contract for supplies shall, if practicable, include a provision inviting each offeror responding to the solicitation to state an opinion on whether the quantity of the supplies proposed to be procured is economically advantageous to the United States and, if applicable, to recommend a quantity or quantities which would be more economically advantageous to the United States. Each such recommendation shall include a quotation of the total price and the unit price for supplies procured in each recommended quantity.

(Added Pub. L. 98–525, title XII, §1233(a), Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2600.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1813(c), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4179, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 223 of this title, inserted after section 3241 of this title, as transferred and redesignated by section 1813(b) of Pub. L. 116–283, and redesignated as section 3242 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 98–525, title XII, §1233(b), Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2601, provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (a) \[enacting this section\] shall take effect at the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 19, 1984\]."