### §2410*o*. Multiyear procurement authority: purchase of dinitrogen tetroxide, hydrazine, and hydrazine-related products

(a) Ten-Year Contract Period.—The Secretary of Defense may enter into a contract for a period of up to 10 years for the purchase of dinitrogen tetroxide, hydrazine, and hydrazine-related products for the support of a United States national security program or a United States space program.

(b) Extensions.—A contract entered into for more than one year under the authority of subsection (a) may be extended for a total of not more than 10 years pursuant to any option or options set forth in the contract.

(Added Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title VIII, §826(a), Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2617.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1822(t)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4205, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to subchapter III of chapter 249 of this title, as added by section 1822(t)(1) of Pub. L. 116–283, inserted after the table of sections, and redesignated as section 3551 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.