### §2410*l*. Contracts for advisory and assistance services: cost comparison studies

(a) Requirement.—(1)(A) Before the Secretary of Defense enters into a contract described in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall determine whether Department of Defense personnel have the capability to perform the services proposed to be covered by the contract.

(B) Subparagraph (A) applies to any contract of the Department of Defense for advisory and assistance services that is expected to have a value in excess of $100,000.

(2) If the Secretary determines that Department of Defense personnel have the capability to perform the services to be covered by the contract, the Secretary shall conduct a study comparing the cost of performing the services with Department of Defense personnel and the cost of performing the services with contractor personnel.

(b) Waiver.—The Secretary of Defense may, pursuant to guidelines prescribed by the Secretary, waive the requirement to perform a cost comparison study under subsection (a)(2) based on factors that are not related to cost.

(Added Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, §363(a)(1), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2733.)

#### Transfer of Section

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §§1801(d), 1856(g), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4151, 4275, provided that, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, this section is transferred to chapter 341 of this title, inserted after section 4508, and redesignated as section 4509 of this title. See Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note below.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date

Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, §363(c), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2734, provided that: "Section 2410l of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Oct. 5, 1994\]."

#### Procedures for Conduct of Studies

Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, §363(b), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2734, provided that: "The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe the following procedures:

"(1) Procedures for carrying out a cost comparison study under subsection (a)(2) of section 2410l of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), which may contain a requirement that the cost comparison study include consideration of factors that are not related to cost, including the quality of the service required to be performed, the availability of Department of Defense personnel, the duration and recurring nature of the services to be performed, and the consistency of the workload.

"(2) Procedures for reviewing contracts entered into after a waiver under subsection (b) of such section to determine whether the contract is justified and sufficiently documented."