### §3761. Restructuring costs

(a) Limitation on Payment of Restructuring Costs.—The Secretary of Defense may not pay, under subchapter I, a defense contractor for restructuring costs associated with a business combination of the contractor that occurs after November 18, 1997, unless the Secretary determines in writing either—

(1) that the amount of projected savings for the Department of Defense associated with the restructuring will be at least twice the amount of the costs allowed; or

(2) that the amount of projected savings for the Department of Defense associated with the restructuring will exceed the amount of the costs allowed and that the business combination will result in the preservation of a critical capability that otherwise might be lost to the Department.

  

(b) Limitation on Delegation.—The Secretary may not delegate the authority to make a determination under subsection (a), with respect to a business combination, to an official of the Department of Defense—

(1) below the level of an Assistant Secretary of Defense for cases in which the amount of restructuring costs is expected to exceed $25,000,000 over a 5-year period; or

(2) below the level of the Director of the Defense Contract Management Agency for all other cases.

  

(c) Definition.—In this section, the term "business combination" includes a merger or acquisition.

(Added Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title VIII, §804(a)(1), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1832, §2325; amended Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, §1066(a)(19), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 771; Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VIII, §819, Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2016; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, §1076(g)(2), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1955; renumbered §3761 and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1832(j)(2), (3), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4225.)

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.