### §3171. Congressional findings and declaration of policy

#### (a) Findings

Congress finds that there is increasing evidence of a relationship between diet and many of the leading causes of death in the United States: that improved nutrition is an integral component of preventive health care; that there is a serious need for research on the chronic effects of diet on degenerative diseases and related disorders; that nutrition and health considerations are important to United States agricultural policy; that there is insufficient knowledge concerning precise human nutritional requirements, the interaction of the various nutritional constituents of food, and differences in nutritional requirements among different population groups such as infants, children, adolescents, elderly men and women, and pregnant women; and that there is a critical need for objective data concerning food safety, the potential of food enrichment, and means to encourage better nutritional practices.

#### (b) Declaration of policy

It is declared to be the policy of the United States that the Department of Agriculture conduct research in the fields of human nutrition and the nutritive value of foods and conduct human nutrition education activities, as provided in this subchapter.

(Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, §1421, Sept. 29, 1977, 91 Stat. 999.)

#### Effective Date

Subchapter effective Oct. 1, 1977, see section 1901 of Pub. L. 95–113, set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under section 1307 of this title.

#### Nutrition Information and Awareness Pilot Program

Pub. L. 107–171, title IV, §4403, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 334, as amended by Pub. L. 110–234, title IV, §4406(c)(2), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1142; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title IV, §4406(c)(2), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1903, provided that:

“(a) Establishment.—The Secretary of Agriculture may establish, in not more than 5 States, for a period not to exceed 4 years for each participating State, a pilot program to increase the domestic consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables.

“(b) Purpose.—

“(1) In general.—Subject to paragraph (2), the purpose of the program shall be to provide funds to States solely for the purpose of assisting eligible public and private sector entities with cost-share assistance to carry out demonstration projects—

“(A) to increase fruit and vegetable consumption; and

“(B) to convey related health promotion messages.

“(2) Limitation.—Funds made available to a State under the program shall not be used to disparage any agricultural commodity.

“(c) Selection of States.—

“(1) In general.—In selecting States to participate in the program, the Secretary shall take into consideration, with respect to projects and activities proposed to be carried out under the program—

“(A) experience in carrying out similar projects or activities;

“(B) innovative approaches; and

“(C) the ability of the State to promote and track increases in levels of fruit and vegetable consumption.

“(2) Enhancement of existing state programs.—The Secretary may use the pilot program to enhance existing State programs that are consistent with the purpose of the pilot program specified in subsection (b).

“(d) Eligible Public and Private Sector Entities.—

“(1) In general.—A participating State shall establish eligibility criteria under which the State may select public and private sector entities to carry out demonstration projects under the program.

“(2) Limitation.—No funds made available to States under the program shall be provided by a State to any foreign for-profit corporation.

“(e) Federal Share.—The Federal share of the cost of any project or activity carried out using funds provided under this section shall be 50 percent.

“(f) Authorization of Appropriations.—There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2012.”