### §9225. Programs for corrections education and other institutionalized individuals

#### (a) Program authorized

From funds made available under section 9222(a)(1) of this title for a fiscal year, each eligible agency shall carry out corrections education and education for other institutionalized individuals.

#### (b) Uses of funds

The funds described in subsection (a) of this section shall be used for the cost of educational programs for criminal offenders in correctional institutions and for other institutionalized individuals, including academic programs for—

(1) basic education;

(2) special education programs as determined by the eligible agency;

(3) English literacy programs; and

(4) secondary school credit programs.

#### (c) Priority

Each eligible agency that is using assistance provided under this section to carry out a program for criminal offenders in a correctional institution shall give priority to serving individuals who are likely to leave the correctional institution within 5 years of participation in the program.

#### (d) Definitions

#### (1) Criminal offender

The term “criminal offender” means any individual who is charged with or convicted of any criminal offense.

#### (2) Correctional institution

The term “correctional institution” means any—

(A) prison;

(B) jail;

(C) reformatory;

(D) work farm;

(E) detention center; or

(F) halfway house, community-based rehabilitation center, or any other similar institution designed for the confinement or rehabilitation of criminal offenders.

(Pub. L. 105–220, title II, §225, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1069; Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, §101(f) \[title VIII, §404(d)\], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–337, 2681–417.)

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to this section were contained in section 1204 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 105–220.

#### Amendments

**1998**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 105–277, §101(f) \[title VIII, §404(d)(1)\], substituted “and education” for “or education”.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 105–277, §101(f) \[title VIII, §404(d)(2)\], substituted “within” for “with” before “5 years”.