### §423*l*–5. Park administration

#### (a) Applicable laws

The Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, shall administer the battlefield park in accordance with sections 423l–1 to 423l–6 of this title and laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 [1](#423l-5_1_target) of this title and sections 461 to 467 [1](#423l-5_1_target) of this title.

#### (b) New Market Heights Battlefield

The Secretary shall provide for the establishment of a monument or memorial suitable to honor the 14 Medal of Honor recipients from the United States Colored Troops who fought in the Battle of New Market Heights. The Secretary shall include the Battle of New Market Heights and the role of black Union soldiers in the battle in historical interpretations provided to the public at the battlefield park.

#### (c) Cooperative agreements

The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the Commonwealth of Virginia, its political subdivisions (including the City of Richmond), private property owners, and other members of the private sector to develop mechanisms to protect and interpret the historical resources within the battlefield park in a manner that would allow for continued private ownership and use where compatible with the purposes for which the battlefield is established.

#### (d) Technical assistance

The Secretary may provide technical assistance to the Commonwealth of Virginia, its political subdivisions, nonprofit entities, and private property owners for the development of comprehensive plans, land use guidelines, special studies, and other activities that are consistent with the identification, protection, interpretation, and commemoration of historically significant Civil War resources located inside and outside of the boundaries of the battlefield park. The technical assistance does not authorize the Secretary to own or manage any of the resources outside the battlefield park boundaries.

(Pub. L. 106–511, title V, §505, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2375.)

#### References in Text

Sections 423l–1 to 423l–6 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original "this title", meaning title V of Pub. L. 106–511, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2373, which enacted sections 423l–1 to 423l–6 of this title and repealed sections 423j to 423l of this title. For complete classification of title V to the Code, see Tables.

Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), were repealed by Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272. For disposition of sections, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

Sections 461 to 467 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), were repealed by Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272. For disposition of sections, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#423l-5_1)