### §8082. Chaplain Corps and Chief of Chaplains

(a) The Chaplain Corps is a staff corps of the Navy and shall be organized in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy.

(b) There is in the executive part of the Department of the Navy the office of the Chief of Chaplains of the Navy. The Chief of Chaplains shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from officers of the Chaplain Corps in the grade of commander or above who are serving on active duty and who have served on active duty in the Chaplain Corps for at least eight years.

(c) An officer appointed as the Chief of Chaplains shall be appointed for a term of four years. However, the President may terminate or extend the appointment at any time.

(d)(1) The Chief of Chaplains shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy and by law.

(2) The Chief of Chaplains shall, with respect to all duties pertaining to the procurement, distribution, and support of personnel of the Chaplain Corps, report to and be supported by the Chief of Naval Personnel.

(e) The Chief of Chaplains, while so serving, holds the grade of rear admiral (upper half).

(Added Pub. L. 96–343, §11(a), Sept. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 1130, §5142; amended Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title V, §504(c)(1), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1725; Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, §502(cc), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2105; renumbered §8082 and amended Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title V, §510(b), title VIII, §807(a)(2), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1751, 1834.)

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, §807(a)(2), renumbered section 5142 of this title as this section.

Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 115–232, §510(b), added subsec. (e).

**2016**—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 114–328 struck out subsec. (e) which read as follows: "The Chief of Chaplains of the Navy is entitled to the same rank and privileges of retirement as provided for chiefs of bureaus in section 5133 of this title."

**1997**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 105–85 struck out ", who are not on the retired list," after "serving on active duty".

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by section 807(a)(2) of Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.