### §4509. Contracts for advisory and assistance services: cost comparison studies

(a) Requirement.—(1)(A) Before the Secretary of Defense enters into a contract described in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall determine whether Department of Defense personnel have the capability to perform the services proposed to be covered by the contract.

(B) Subparagraph (A) applies to any contract of the Department of Defense for advisory and assistance services that is expected to have a value in excess of $100,000.

(2) If the Secretary determines that Department of Defense personnel have the capability to perform the services to be covered by the contract, the Secretary shall conduct a study comparing the cost of performing the services with Department of Defense personnel and the cost of performing the services with contractor personnel.

(b) Waiver.—The Secretary of Defense may, pursuant to guidelines prescribed by the Secretary, waive the requirement to perform a cost comparison study under subsection (a)(2) based on factors that are not related to cost.

(Added Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, §363(a)(1), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2733, §2410l; renumbered §4509, Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1856(g), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4275.)

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.