### §4145. Application of other laws

To the extent they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter, the following provisions of subchapter I and title I of the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as amended \[22 U.S.C. 1621 et seq.\], shall apply to this subchapter: The first sentence of subsection (b) of section 4101 of this title, all of subsection (c) of section 4101 of this title and section 4109 of this title, and subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) of section 7 of the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as amended \[22 U.S.C. 1626\].

(July 3, 1948, ch. 826, title II, §215, as added Pub. L. 87–846, title I, §103, Oct. 22, 1962, 76 Stat. 1112.)

#### References in Text

Subchapter I, referred to in text, was in the original "title I of this Act", meaning title I of act July 3, 1948, ch. 826, 62 Stat. 1240, which is classified principally to subchapter I (§4101 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

The International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, referred to in text, is act Mar. 10, 1950, ch. 54, 64 Stat. 12. Title I of the Act is classified generally to subchapter I (§1621 et seq.) of chapter 21 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1621 of Title 22 and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2017n of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.