### §17j–2. Authorization of appropriations for road maintenance and repair, etc.

Appropriations for the National Park Service are authorized for—

(a) Necessary protection of the area of federally owned land in the custody of the National Park Service known as the Ocean Strip and Queets Corridor, adjacent to Olympic National Park, Washington; necessary repairs to the roads from Glacier Park Station through the Blackfeet Indian Reservation to the various points in the boundary line of Glacier National Park, Montana, and the international boundary; repair and maintenance of approximately two and seventy-seven one-hundredths miles of road leading from United States Highway 187 to the north entrance of Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming; maintenance of approach roads through the Lassen National Forest leading to Lassen Volcanic National Park, California; maintenance and repair of the Generals Highway between the boundaries of Sequoia National Park, California, and the Grant Grove section of Kings Canyon National Park, California; maintenance of approximately two and one-fourth miles of roads comprising those portions of the Fresno-Kings Canyon approach road, Park Ridge Lookout Road, and Ash Mountain-Advance truck trail, necessary to the administration and protection of the Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks; maintenance of the roads in the national forests leading out of Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, Idaho, and Montana; maintenance of the road in the Stanislaus National Forest connecting the Tioga Road with the Hetch Hetchy Road near Mather Station, Yosemite National Park, California; and maintenance and repair of the approach road to the Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument and the road connecting the said monument with the Reno Monument site, Montana; repair and maintenance of the class "C" road lying between the terminus of F.A. 383 at the east boundary of Coronado National Forest and the point where said class "C" road enters Coronado National Memorial in the vicinity of Montezuma Pass, approximately 5.3 miles.

(b) to (g) Repealed. Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272.

(h) Acquisition of rights-of-way and construction and maintenance of a water supply line partly outside the boundaries of Mesa Verde National Park.

(Aug. 7, 1946, ch. 788, 60 Stat. 885; Pub. L. 86–689, §3, Sept. 2, 1960, 74 Stat. 737; Pub. L. 102–201, title I, §101, Dec. 10, 1991, 105 Stat. 1631; Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, §802, Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4186; Pub. L. 113–287, §7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3272.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2014**—Subsecs. (b) to (g), (i), (j). Pub. L. 113–287 struck out subsecs. (b) to (g), (i), and (j), which authorized various appropriations for the National Park Service. See section 103102 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

**1996**—Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 104–333 added subsec. (j).

**1960**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 86–689 authorized appropriations for the repair and maintenance of the class "C" road lying between the terminus of F.A. 383 at the east boundary of Coronado National Forest and the point where said class "C" road enters Coronado National Memorial in the vicinity of Montezuma Pass.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

"Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument" substituted in text for "Custer Battlefield National Monument" pursuant to Pub. L. 102–201.

  

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.