### §410hh–2. Administration; hunting and subsistence uses; admission fees

Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall administer the lands, waters, and interests therein added to existing areas or established by the foregoing sections of this subchapter as new areas of the National Park System, pursuant to the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535), as amended and supplemented (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.),[1](#410hh-2_1_target) and, as appropriate, under section 3201 of this title and the other applicable provisions of this Act: *Provided, however*, That hunting shall be permitted in areas designated as national preserves under the provisions of this Act. Subsistence uses by local residents shall be allowed in national preserves and, where specifically permitted by this Act, in national monuments and parks. Lands, waters, and interests therein withdrawn or reserved for the former Katmai and Glacier Bay National Monuments are hereby incorporated within and made a part of Katmai National Park or Glacier Bay National Park, as appropriate. Any funds available for the purposes of such monuments are hereby made available for the purposes of Katmai National Park and Preserve or Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve, as appropriate. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no fees shall be charged for entrance or admission to any unit of the National Park System located in Alaska.

(Pub. L. 96–487, title II, §203, Dec. 2, 1980, 94 Stat. 2383.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535), as amended and supplemented (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), referred to in text, is act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408, 39 Stat. 535, known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and provisions set out as a note under section 100101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as section 1865(a) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54 by Pub. L. 113–287, §§3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3094, 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding section 100101 of Title 54.

This Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 96–487, Dec. 2, 1980, 94 Stat. 2371, as amended, known as the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3101 of this title and Tables.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Environmental Impact Statement on Effects of 1996 Increases in Vessel Entries for Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve

Pub. L. 107–63, title I, §130, Nov. 5, 2001, 115 Stat. 442, provided that: "From within funds available to the National Park Service, such sums as may be necessary shall be used for expenses necessary to complete and issue, no later than January 1, 2004, an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to identify and analyze the possible effects of the 1996 increases in the number of vessel entries issued for Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve: *Provided*, That such EIS, upon its completion, shall be used by the Secretary to set the maximum level of vessel entries: *Provided further*, That until the Secretary sets the level of vessel entries based on the new EIS, the number of vessel entries into the Park shall be the same as that in effect during the 2000 calendar year and the National Park Service approval of modified Alternative 5 and promulgation of the final rule issued on May 30, 1996, relating to vessel entries, including the number of such entries, for Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve are hereby approved and shall be in effect notwithstanding any other provision of law until the Secretary sets the maximum level of vessel entries consistent with this section: *Provided further*, That nothing in this section shall preclude the Secretary from suspending or revoking any vessel entry if the Secretary determines that it is necessary to protect Park resources."

[1 See References in Text note below.](#410hh-2_1)