### §9032. The Air Staff: general duties

(a) The Air Staff shall furnish professional assistance to the Secretary, the Under Secretary, and the Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force, and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force.

(b) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Air Staff shall—

(1) subject to subsections (c) and (d) of section 9014 of this title, prepare for such employment of the Air Force, and for such recruiting, organizing, supplying, equipping (including those aspects of research and development assigned by the Secretary of the Air Force), training, servicing, mobilizing, demobilizing, administering, and maintaining of the Air Force, as will assist in the execution of any power, duty, or function of the Secretary or the Chief of Staff;

(2) investigate and report upon the efficiency of the Air Force and its preparation to support military operations by combatant commands;

(3) prepare detailed instructions for the execution of approved plans and supervise the execution of those plans and instructions;

(4) as directed by the Secretary or the Chief of Staff, coordinate the action of organizations of the Air Force; and

(5) perform such other duties, not otherwise assigned by law, as may be prescribed by the Secretary.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 490, §8032; Pub. L. 85–599, §4(h), Aug. 6, 1958, 72 Stat. 517; Pub. L. 99–433, title V, §522(b), Oct. 1, 1986, 100 Stat. 1060; renumbered §9032 and amended Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §§806(c), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1833, 1840.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)*     | *Source (Statutes at Large)*                 |
| ----------------- | ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------- |
| 8032(a)  8032(b)  | 10:1815(a).  10:1815(b). | Sept. 19, 1951, ch. 407, §205, 65 Stat. 329. |

In subsection (a), the word "furnish" is substituted for the word "render".

In subsection (b)(1), the words "power, duty, or function of" are substituted for the words "power vested in, duty imposed upon, or function assigned to".

In subsection (b)(2), the words "all questions affecting" and "state of" are omitted as surplusage.

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, §806(c), renumbered section 8032 of this title as this section.

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 115–232, §809(a), substituted "section 9014" for "section 8014".

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–433, §522(b)(3), substituted "The Air Staff: general duties" for "General duties" in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99–433, §522(b)(1), inserted "of the Air Force" after "Chief of Staff".

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 99–433, §522(b)(2), substituted "Under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Air Staff" for "The Air Staff" before par. (1), inserted "subject to subsections (c) and (d) of section 8014 of this title," and substituted "(including those aspects of research and development assigned by the Secretary of the Air Force), training, servicing, mobilizing, demobilizing, administering, and maintaining" for ", training, serving, mobilizing, and demobilizing" in par. (1), substituted "to support military operations by combatant commands" for "for military operations" in par. (2), and amended par. (4) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (4) read as follows: "act as agent of the Secretary and the Chief of Staff in coordinating the action of all organizations of the Department of the Air Force; and".

**1958**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 85–599 substituted "prepare for such employment of the Air Force" for "prepare such plans for the national security, for employment of the Air Force for that purpose, both separately and in conjunction with the land and naval forces".

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.