### §9040. Oversight of nuclear deterrence mission

(a) Oversight of Nuclear Deterrence Mission.—Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force shall be responsible for overseeing the safety, security, reliability, effectiveness, and credibility of the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force.

(b) Deputy Chief of Staff.—Not later than March 1, 2016, the Chief of Staff shall designate a Deputy Chief of Staff to carry out the following duties:

(1) Provide direction, guidance, integration, and advocacy regarding the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force.

(2) Conduct monitoring and oversight activities regarding the safety, security, reliability, effectiveness, and credibility of the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force.

(3) Conduct periodic comprehensive assessments of all aspects of the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force and provide such assessments to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force.

(Added Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title XVI, §1652(a)(1), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 1121, §8040; renumbered §9040, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(c), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1833.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 8040 of this title as this section.

  

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.