### §2804. Contingency construction

(a) Within the amount appropriated for such purpose, the Secretary of Defense may carry out a military construction project not otherwise authorized by law, or may authorize the Secretary of a military department to carry out such a project, if the Secretary of Defense determines that deferral of the project for inclusion in the next Military Construction Authorization Act would be inconsistent with national security or national interest.

(b) When a decision is made to carry out a military construction project under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of Congress on that decision. Each such report shall include the justification for the project, the current estimate of the cost of the project, and the justification for carrying out the project under this section. The project may then be carried out only after the end of the seven-day period; and [1](#2804_1_target) beginning on the date the notification is received by such committees in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title.

(Added Pub. L. 97–214, §2(a), July 12, 1982, 96 Stat. 155; amended Pub. L. 102–190, div. B, title XXVIII, §2870(3), Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1563; Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, §1031(a)(35), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1600; Pub. L. 109–163, div. B, title XXVIII, §2801(a), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3504; Pub. L. 115–91, div. B, title XXVIII, §2801(a)(2), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1840; Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVII, §1731(a)(54), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1815.)

#### Amendments

**2019**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 116–92 substituted "include the justification" for "include (1) the justification", "project, the current" for "project and the current", and "and the justification" for "and (2) the justification".

**2017**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 115–91 struck out "in writing" after "submit a report" and "or, if earlier, the end of the seven-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notification is provided" after "such committees" and substituted "seven-day period; and" for "14-day period".

**2006**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 109–163 substituted "14-day period" for "21-day period" and "seven-day period" for "14-day period".

**2003**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 108–136 inserted before period at end "or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notification is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title".

**1991**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 102–190 struck out before period at end ", or after each such committee has approved the project, if the committees approve the project before the end of that period".

#### Effective Date

For effective date and applicability of section, see section 12(a) of Pub. L. 97–214, set out as a note under section 2801 of this title.

[1 So in original. The semicolon and "and" probably should not appear.](#2804_1)