### §3520. Establishment of task force on information collection and dissemination

(a) There is established a task force to study the feasibility of streamlining requirements with respect to small business concerns regarding collection of information and strengthening dissemination of information (in this section referred to as the "task force").

(b)(1) The Director shall determine—

(A) subject to the minimum requirements under paragraph (2), the number of representatives to be designated under each subparagraph of that paragraph; and

(B) the agencies to be represented under paragraph (2)(K).

  

(2) After all determinations are made under paragraph (1), the members of the task force shall be designated by the head of each applicable department or agency, and include—

(A) 1 representative of the Director, who shall convene and chair the task force;

(B) not less than 2 representatives of the Department of Labor, including 1 representative of the Bureau of Labor Statistics and 1 representative of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration;

(C) not less than 1 representative of the Environmental Protection Agency;

(D) not less than 1 representative of the Department of Transportation;

(E) not less than 1 representative of the Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration;

(F) not less than 1 representative of the Internal Revenue Service;

(G) not less than 2 representatives of the Department of Health and Human Services, including 1 representative of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services;

(H) not less than 1 representative of the Department of Agriculture;

(I) not less than 1 representative of the Department of the Interior;

(J) not less than 1 representative of the General Services Administration; and

(K) not less than 1 representative of each of 2 agencies not represented by representatives described under subparagraphs (A) through (J).

  

(c) The task force shall—

(1) identify ways to integrate the collection of information across Federal agencies and programs and examine the feasibility and desirability of requiring each agency to consolidate requirements regarding collections of information with respect to small business concerns within and across agencies, without negatively impacting the effectiveness of underlying laws and regulations regarding such collections of information, in order that each small business concern may submit all information required by the agency—

(A) to 1 point of contact in the agency;

(B) in a single format, such as a single electronic reporting system, with respect to the agency; and

(C) with synchronized reporting for information submissions having the same frequency, such as synchronized quarterly, semiannual, and annual reporting dates;

  

(2) examine the feasibility and benefits to small businesses of publishing a list by the Director of the collections of information applicable to small business concerns (as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)), organized—

(A) by North American Industry Classification System code;

(B) by industrial sector description; or

(C) in another manner by which small business concerns can more easily identify requirements with which those small business concerns are expected to comply;

  

(3) examine the savings, including cost savings, and develop recommendations for implementing—

(A) systems for electronic submissions of information to the Federal Government; and

(B) interactive reporting systems, including components that provide immediate feedback to assure that data being submitted—

(i) meet requirements of format; and

(ii) are within the range of acceptable options for each data field;

  

(4) make recommendations to improve the electronic dissemination of information collected under Federal requirements;

(5) recommend a plan for the development of an interactive Governmentwide system, available through the Internet, to allow each small business to—

(A) better understand which Federal requirements regarding collection of information (and, when possible, which other Federal regulatory requirements) apply to that particular business; and

(B) more easily comply with those Federal requirements; and

  

(6) in carrying out this section, consider opportunities for the coordination—

(A) of Federal and State reporting requirements; and

(B) among the points of contact described under section 3506(i), such as to enable agencies to provide small business concerns with contacts for information collection requirements for other agencies.

  

(d) The task force shall—

(1) by publication in the Federal Register, provide notice and an opportunity for public comment on each report in draft form; and

(2) make provision in each report for the inclusion of—

(A) any additional or dissenting views of task force members; and

(B) a summary of significant public comments.

  

(e) Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Small Business Paperwork Relief Act of 2002, the task force shall submit a report of its findings under subsection (c) (1), (2), and (3) to—

(1) the Director;

(2) the chairpersons and ranking minority members of—

(A) the Committee on Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Government Reform and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives; and

  

(3) the Small Business and Agriculture Regulatory Enforcement Ombudsman designated under section 30(b) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657(b)).

  

(f) Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of the Small Business Paperwork Relief Act of 2002, the task force shall submit a report of its findings under subsection (c) (4) and (5) to—

(1) the Director;

(2) the chairpersons and ranking minority members of—

(A) the Committee on Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Government Reform and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives; and

  

(3) the Small Business and Agriculture Regulatory Enforcement Ombudsman designated under section 30(b) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657(b)).

  

(g) The task force shall terminate after completion of its work.

(h) In this section, the term "small business concern" has the meaning given under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).

(Added Pub. L. 107–198, §3(a)(2), June 28, 2002, 116 Stat. 730; amended Pub. L. 115–435, title II, §202(e)(1), Jan. 14, 2019, 132 Stat. 5541.)

#### Amendment of Section

Pub. L. 115–435, title II, §202(e)(1), title IV, §403, Jan. 14, 2019, 132 Stat. 5541, 5557, provided that, effective 180 days after Jan. 14, 2019, this section is amended to read as follows:

#### *§3520. Chief Data Officers*

*(a)* *Establishment**.—The head of each agency shall designate a nonpolitical appointee employee in the agency as the Chief Data Officer of the agency.*

*(b)* *Qualifications**.—The Chief Data Officer of an agency shall be designated on the basis of demonstrated training and experience in data management, governance (including creation, application, and maintenance of data standards), collection, analysis, protection, use, and dissemination, including with respect to any statistical and related techniques to protect and de-identify confidential data.*

*(c)* *Functions**.—The Chief Data Officer of an agency shall—*

*(1) be responsible for lifecycle data management;*

*(2) coordinate with any official in the agency responsible for using, protecting, disseminating, and generating data to ensure that the data needs of the agency are met;*

*(3) manage data assets of the agency, including the standardization of data format, sharing of data assets, and publication of data assets in accordance with applicable law;*

*(4) in carrying out the requirements under paragraphs (3) and (5), consult with any statistical official of the agency (as designated under section 314 of title 5);*

*(5) carry out the requirements of the agency under subsections (b) through (d), (f), and (i) of section 3506, section 3507, and section 3511;*

*(6) ensure that, to the extent practicable, agency data conforms with data management best practices;*

*(7) engage agency employees, the public, and contractors in using public data assets and encourage collaborative approaches on improving data use;*

*(8) support the Performance Improvement Officer of the agency in identifying and using data to carry out the functions described in section 1124(a)(2) of title 31;*

*(9) support the Evaluation Officer of the agency in obtaining data to carry out the functions described in section 313(d) of title 5;*

*(10) review the impact of the infrastructure of the agency on data asset accessibility and coordinate with the Chief Information Officer of the agency to improve such infrastructure to reduce barriers that inhibit data asset accessibility;*

*(11) ensure that, to the extent practicable, the agency maximizes the use of data in the agency, including for the production of evidence (as defined in section 3561), cybersecurity, and the improvement of agency operations;*

*(12) identify points of contact for roles and responsibilities related to open data use and implementation (as required by the Director);*

*(13) serve as the agency liaison to other agencies and the Office of Management and Budget on the best way to use existing agency data for statistical purposes (as defined in section 3561); and*

*(14) comply with any regulation and guidance issued under subchapter III, including the acquisition and maintenance of any required certification and training.*

  

*(d)* *Delegation of Responsibilities.—*

*(1)* *In general**.—To the extent necessary to comply with statistical laws, the Chief Data Officer of an agency shall delegate any responsibility under subsection (c) to the head of a statistical agency or unit (as defined in section 3561) within the agency.*

*(2)* *Consultation**.—To the extent permissible under law, the individual to whom a responsibility has been delegated under paragraph (1) shall consult with the Chief Data Officer of the agency in carrying out such responsibility.*

*(3)* *Deference**.—The Chief Data Officer of the agency shall defer to the individual to whom a responsibility has been delegated under paragraph (1) regarding the necessary delegation of such responsibility with respect to any data acquired, maintained, or disseminated by the agency under applicable statistical law.*

  

*(e)* *Reports**.—The Chief Data Officer of an agency shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives an annual report on the compliance of the agency with the requirements of this subchapter, including information on each requirement that the agency could not carry out and, if applicable, what the agency needs to carry out such requirement.*

See 2019 Amendment note below.

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the Small Business Paperwork Relief Act of 2002, referred to in subsecs. (e) and (f), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 107–198, which was approved June 28, 2002.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3520 was renumbered section 3521 of this title.

Another prior section 3520, added Pub. L. 96–511, §2(a), Dec. 11, 1980, 94 Stat. 2825; amended Pub. L. 99–500, §101(m) \[title VIII, §820\], Oct. 18, 1986, 100 Stat. 1783–308, 1783–340, and Pub. L. 99–591, §101(m) \[title VIII, §820\], Oct. 30, 1986, 100 Stat. 3341–308, 3341–340, related to authorization of appropriations prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 104–13.

#### Amendments

**2019**—Pub. L. 115–435 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to establishment of task force on information collection and dissemination.

#### Change of Name

Committee on Governmental Affairs of Senate changed to Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of Senate, effective Jan. 4, 2005, by Senate Resolution No. 445, One Hundred Eighth Congress, Oct. 9, 2004.

Committee on Government Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–435 effective 180 days after Jan. 14, 2019, see section 403 of Pub. L. 115–435, set out as a note under section 306 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.