### §15401. Requirements payments

#### (a) In general

The Commission shall make a requirements payment each year in an amount determined under section 15402 of this title to each State which meets the conditions described in section 15403 of this title for the year.

#### (b) Use of funds

#### (1) In general

Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), a State receiving a requirements payment shall use the payment only to meet the requirements of subchapter III of this chapter.

#### (2) Other activities

A State may use a requirements payment to carry out other activities to improve the administration of elections for Federal office if the State certifies to the Commission that—

(A) the State has implemented the requirements of subchapter III of this chapter; or

(B) the amount expended with respect to such other activities does not exceed an amount equal to the minimum payment amount applicable to the State under section 15402(c) of this title.

#### (3) Activities under Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act

A State shall use a requirements payment made using funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization under section 15407(a)(4) of this title only to meet the requirements under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act \[42 U.S.C. 1973ff et seq.\] imposed as a result of the provisions of and amendments made by the Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment Act.

#### (c) Retroactive payments

#### (1) In general

Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, including the maintenance of effort requirements of section 15404(a)(7) of this title, a State may use a requirements payment as a reimbursement for costs incurred in obtaining voting equipment which meets the requirements of section 15481 of this title if the State obtains the equipment after the regularly scheduled general election for Federal office held in November 2000.

#### (2) Special rule regarding multiyear contracts

A State may use a requirements payment for any costs for voting equipment which meets the requirements of section 15481 of this title that, pursuant to a multiyear contract, were incurred on or after January 1, 2001, except that the amount that the State is otherwise required to contribute under the maintenance of effort requirements of section 15404(a)(7) of this title shall be increased by the amount of the payment made with respect to such multiyear contract.

#### (d) Adoption of Commission guidelines and guidance not required to receive payment

Nothing in this subpart may be construed to require a State to implement any of the voluntary voting system guidelines or any of the voluntary guidance adopted by the Commission with respect to any matter as a condition for receiving a requirements payment.

#### (e) Schedule of payments

As soon as practicable after the initial appointment of all members of the Commission (but in no event later than 6 months thereafter), and not less frequently than once each calendar year thereafter, the Commission shall make requirements payments to States under this subpart.

#### (f) Limitation

A State may not use any portion of a requirements payment—

(1) to pay costs associated with any litigation, except to the extent that such costs otherwise constitute permitted uses of a requirements payment under this subpart; or

(2) for the payment of any judgment.

(Pub. L. 107–252, title II, §251, Oct. 29, 2002, 116 Stat. 1692; Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title V, §588(a), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2333.)

#### References in Text

Subchapter III of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), (2)(A), was in the original “title III”, meaning title III of Pub. L. 107–252, Oct. 29, 2002, 116 Stat. 1704, which is classified principally to subchapter III (§15481 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Tables.

The Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is Pub. L. 99–410, Aug. 28, 1986, 100 Stat. 924, which is classified principally to subchapter I–G (§1973ff et seq.) of chapter 20 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1971 of this title and Tables.

The Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is subtitle H (§§575–589) of title V of div. A of Pub. L. 111–84, Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2318, which enacted sections 1973ff–2a, 1973ff–2b, 1973ff–4a, and 1973ff–7 of this title and section 1566a of Title 10, Armed Forces, amended sections 1973ff to 1973ff–2, 1973ff–3, 1973ff–4, 15401, 15403, 15404, and 15407 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1971 and 1973ff to 1973ff–2 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2009 Amendment note set out under section 1971 of this title and Tables.

#### Amendments

**2009**—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 111–84, §588(a)(1), substituted “paragraphs (2) and (3)” for “paragraph (2)”.

Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 111–84, §588(a)(2), added par. (3).