### §15402. Allocation of funds

#### (a) In general

Subject to subsection (c) of this section, the amount of a requirements payment made to a State for a year shall be equal to the product of—

(1) the total amount appropriated for requirements payments for the year pursuant to the authorization under section 15407 of this title; and

(2) the State allocation percentage for the State (as determined under subsection (b) of this section).

#### (b) State allocation percentage defined

The "State allocation percentage" for a State is the amount (expressed as a percentage) equal to the quotient of—

(1) the voting age population of the State (as reported in the most recent decennial census); and

(2) the total voting age population of all States (as reported in the most recent decennial census).

#### (c) Minimum amount of payment

The amount of a requirements payment made to a State for a year may not be less than—

(1) in the case of any of the several States or the District of Columbia, one-half of 1 percent of the total amount appropriated for requirements payments for the year under section 15407 of this title; or

(2) in the case of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the United States Virgin Islands, one-tenth of 1 percent of such total amount.

#### (d) Pro rata reductions

The Administrator [1](#15402_1_target) shall make such pro rata reductions to the allocations determined under subsection (a) of this section as are necessary to comply with the requirements of subsection (c) of this section.

#### (e) Continuing availability of funds after appropriation

A requirements payment made to a State under this subpart shall be available to the State without fiscal year limitation.

(Pub. L. 107–252, title II, §252, Oct. 29, 2002, 116 Stat. 1693.)

[1 So in original. Probably should be "Commission".](#15402_1)