### §825. Rules of construction

#### (a) Administrator

Nothing in this part shall be construed to supersede the civilian emergency management authority of the Administrator under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) or the Post Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act [1](#825_1_target) (6 U.S.C. 701 et seq.).

#### (b) Secretary

Nothing in this part shall be construed as providing new authority to the Secretary, except to coordinate and facilitate the development of the assessments and reports required pursuant to this part.

(Pub. L. 117–263, div. G, title LXXIII, §7309, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3689.)

  

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 93–288, May 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 143, which is classified principally to chapter 68 (§5121 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5121 of Title 42 and Tables.

The Post Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006, which is title VI of Pub. L. 109–295, Oct. 4, 2006, 120 Stat. 1394, which enacted this chapter and enacted and amended numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 701 of this title and Tables.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#825_1)